SPEAKER 0Make the decisions it every day, right, right, right, right, every day.SPEAKER 1Oh yeah, sorry, sir, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, um, introduceSPEAKER 0you, sorry.SPEAKER 1Hi everybody So we are 5 past, so we are recording. Thank you for settling into your seats. Hi, I'm Micah Goar. You may not have seen me yet, but I'm the coordinator of uh the unit, and we are starting, so, uh, sad for everyone I'm sure. Caroline has finished her, uh, lecture series, um, but we're starting off today with the first half is our, our guest lecture, and then I will pick up the second half lecture series from there. But starting off, um, we have, uh, Professor Garner Clancy from the Faculty of Law. Um, and it's gonna, give us a nice break from all the psych theory, right? You had 6 weeks of psychological theory, we'll have another 6 weeks of psychological theory, but now we're gonna see a whole lot about real world, sort of real, you know, it's of course very real world relevant, everything we teach you. But we're gonna, you know, look at a particular realm of the real world here, uh, that we hope that you all find interesting. So please, uh, welcome Professor Clancy.SPEAKER 2Thank you. Thanks Mika, thanks for the opportunity. So, child development, not much, uh, but thinking about, Life pathways, and so my interest is in criminal justice context, so I'm a criminologist, perhaps, uh, in a law school, and I worked for many years in the youth justice systems in New South Wales and continue to do research in areas about crime, and so I want to speak to some of those things. And I will hopefully highlight some of the aspects that obviously have a psychological dimension, because much of this quite clearly has a variety of psychological dimensions. To begin, I'd like to recognize and pay respect to the elders and communities, past and present and emerging of the lands that the University of Sydney's campuses stand on. For thousands of years they've shared and exchanged knowledge across innumerable generations for the benefit of all. And as I often say in the criminal justice context, this is an important acknowledgement and an important lens to think about. In the youth justice system at the moment, ah, probably close to 60% of young people in custody in New South Wales are indigenous, and probably around 35 to 40% of the adults in custody are indigenous. So when we talk about crime and criminal justice, we are in this context often talking about issues that impact, um, indigenous people. Now, this is a horrible slide, but it says, I've done a few things that are relevant to what I'm going to talk about. So, um, what I want to do is begin by thinking about youth justice and. The pathways, because that's very much what I want to kind of unpack, kind of the, the life course pathways that many young people pass in and out of systems of justice, and then often in and out of systems of adult justice. And many of these things begin early in life and continue across that life course, so that's sort of what I want to think about, think about system responses, think about the role of psychologists in those systems, and, Make a bit of a pitch really. All of our systems of justice at the moment are struggling to recruit psychologists, so there are lots of job vacancies. If you are interested, then have a look at Youth Justice New South Wales Corrective Services New South Wales because they are very keen to recruit psychologists. I hear that in our adult system we might be 60 or 70 psychologists down on any one day, so there's enormous workforce opportunities. That's a very good question. I don't absolutely know the answer to because it's a long time since I've thought about registration requirements. Um, have a look at one of the job descriptions, um. Possibly Possibly, and then possibly not, someone might Google it. Now, just to kind of get us thinking, can you talk to the person next to you, someone close to you, just a few questions. You probably know someone next to you, if not, introduce yourself. See what you know, age of criminal responsibility in New South Wales, this term doli incapax. Just a 5 minute quiz.SPEAKER 0I And. I. I OK, let's have a discussion about some of.SPEAKER 2What you come up with. Purpose of this is to get you talking, which you've done, well done. And to think about some of the constructs that effectively define age, we have to think about at what point do we consider that someone is responsible or has the criminal, uh, has the, uh, cognitive capacity to be held responsible for their criminal behavior. So in New South Wales, that's 10. You might know that there's a raging debate about the minimum age of criminal responsibility. 10 internationally is very low. Many jurisdictions in Europe in particular, would set the minimum age around 14 or 15. We're having that debate across Australia and some jurisdictions have moved to increase, uh, such as ACT has gone to 14, Victoria's gone to 12, Northern Territory went to 12 and then went back down to 10 with a change of government. So this is kind of contentious topic, thinking about, at what age could we say that a young person, or a child knows sufficiently that what they did was wrong and that they should be held responsible. So currently it's still 10 in New South Wales, that may change. But I don't see lots of appetite from the current government. Doli incapax is a concept that applies to children between 10 and 14, and it places the responsibility on the prosecution to prove that the child or young person knew that their behavior was more than merely naughty. That there was some Understanding that what they engaged in was a criminal activity. That is complicated. It's complicated by systems, it's complicated by development and questions about development, and what evidence would we find to say that they knew. It's a big conundrum in New South Wales at the moment because there was a high court decision in 2016 that really articulated this concept of doli incapax, and for many, Many people feel that it lifted the bar, that it's become harder for police to prosecute someone between 10 and 14 for an offense. So there's a much greater proportion of young people appearing in children's court who are getting off, who were found not guilty by virtue of Doleen Capax. There wasn't evidence to say they knew at the time of the offense, they were doing something that was criminal. So, that is causing the system some challenges at the moment. What types of offenses do young people commit? The point I want to make here is they can commit a variety of offenses, from the very minor to the very major. A number of young people in custody will be in custody because of, ah, they've committed murder or on terrorism offenses. Small number, but they exist and they present real challenges to the system. Because you think about the variety of offending behaviors and the young people being held in the one institution. You don't want contamination from more serious offenders from uh less serious offenders, but it is a challenge that is difficult to manage. Question. No, in, in jurisdictions in this country, it is a very kind of hard, Uh, age related. So it is 10. Some, some jurisdictions, uh, overseas that have a higher minimum age of criminal responsibility say that if a young person commits a more serious offense at a younger age, between certain ages, they could still be held criminally liable, but in New South Wales, it is 10. Under 10, the police will pick young people up, children up for committing offenses, but they cannot charge them. I guarantee you, in parts of New South Wales, people under the age of 10 are committing crime, but they cannot be held legally responsible, so the police have to let them go or contact child protection agency.SPEAKER 0Did they get just like a submarine.SPEAKER 2Kind of, and we try to see it through a welfare response. So we try to wrap some services around them, but there is no legal mandate for them to have to comply. So it's a tricky question, right? No-one wants to criminalize a young person or a child. But I can tell you that a lot of police will say, Doing that, letting them off, probably doesn't help a great deal. So, we'll unpack that a little bit as we talk and we'll think about some of the diversity of offenses that young people commit, knowing that there is a spectrum of offending. And that whilst our attention is often drawn to the ends of that spectrum, either the very minor or the very major, there's a kind of raft of offenses that they might engage in that sit in the middle. And they raise really thorny questions for us about how our system might respond. Long-term, short-term trends in crime, I could spend hours, I won't take that message, we've been through a very prolonged period of youth crime decline. Probably 15 years of youth crime decline in New South Wales, but post-COVID, we think things are changing. I think lots of people are focused on what post-COVID means in a variety of contexts. Post-COVID in our context means a rapid increase in a number of offenses committed by young people, including quite young people. And that's Raises questions about how do we prevent those problems, how do we intervene effectively, how do we intervene early to stop a pathway and engagement with offending, Because we know for some they will become sadly. Pretty well entrenched in a system of justice. How many young people in custody on any one night in New South Wales at the moment, that's about 235. Most of those will be held on remand. They haven't been found guilty, they're in custody until they're court matter or until they are able to post bail or meet bail conditions. So, many of those are in custody for less than 72 hours. We have a very high proportion of young people cycling through custody for very short periods. Not ideal, but is a reality of our system at the moment. Only a small number, probably about 70, have been sentenced to detention. So quite a small number, you think about the population of 10 to 18 year olds in New South Wales who could effectively be incarcerated, ah, it is a very tiny proportion who at any one time have been sentenced to be in custody. And over my working life, it has shrunk enormously, which is wonderful. Having worked in detention centers when I first left uni, having done an undergrad psych degree that didn't prepare me for much, um, I worked in youth justice centers and discovered what really life is like, and, uh, felt like I learned an enormous amount about how people are degraded in family contexts, are abused, neglected, and how much that affects their life course and their, their pathways. Uh, I felt like the first few months of work taught me more than 3.5 years. I took a bit longer than I should have at uni. Uh, New South Wales has the 2nd highest number in custody at the moment. Queensland unfortunately is winning this argument, and they're winning, winning it because of very strict punitive political views that you may have read, but they also have some real problems. And so underneath the headlines, there is actually a small group of young offenders in Queensland who are committing quite serious crimes quite frequently. They have about 300 kids in custody, and then the other jurisdictions go down from there. So on any one night, just under 1000. Young people in custody in across Australia. 7 Sentenced to detention, yep. Sentenced, the others in custody are on remand, they'll be there for a short period, they'll probably be released by a court. We have 6, yes, we have 6 juvenile justice centers or youth justice centers in New South Wales. Ah, separate to adult systems is a very fundamental part of our youth justice approach that we separate young people and adults at every point of the criminal justice system, mostly for the purpose of reducing contamination. The risks that older, more sophisticated offenders will prey on younger offenders. Now, that's still a risk when you've got someone in custody who might be 18 and someone who is 10. They're vastly different developmental ages, as you can imagine, and developmental needs. Um, Now, the next figure. I think I use probably in an unuseful uh not a particularly useful way. Uh, the, the next answer is a million dollars. It costs us a million dollars to lock up a young person per annum in New South Wales. Systems of justice are very expensive. On any unit, we would have maybe up to 15 young people, we would have 3 staff. These are 24/7, 365 days a year operations. A center that locks up maybe 70 young people might have 250 staff. These are very expensive places to run and difficult places to manage. A million dollars is high, obviously, but it fluctuates depending on the numbers in custody. Mostly people say, well, if you take kids out of custody, the costs will fall. Mostly they don't, there are fixed costs built into the system. Unless we really take numbers out, we are largely going to continue to spend quite a lot of money. Now, the adults, we spend a lot less. It could range anywhere between $80,000 to $200,000 a year to lock up an adult in New South Wales. And the difference is about the level of intervention, the investment we try and make in young people in custody. Enormous variety of services that you don't get in adult prisons so much. And just to give you a comparison, there are today about 13,100 adults in custody in New South Wales, across 36 prisons. 13,000 in across 36 prisons. A couple of which are privately run, which we don't have in the youth justice space. So, we spend a lot of money. We don't get good return on investment. So if you are interested in thinking about prevention, which is the next question, but I'm not going to dwell on in any great detail, what we want as a state is to invest wisely to get the best bang for our buck. The back end of the system, we don't get good returns on investment. Many kids leaving custody go back to custody either as a juvenile or as an adult, and at the moment, the reoffending, oh no, the return to custody rate for adults is 50%. 50% of people leaving prison return to prison within 2 years in New South Wales. OK, that's a lot of information for you to digest, maybe too much, but we'll see how we go. So some data on, Um, those proceeded against by police, this partially reflects some of the declines that I mentioned in youth, uh, youth crime, but still large numbers being proceeded to court, about 11,000 per annum. Many we try and divert out of the system. Why do we try and divert them out of the system? Second chance, keep them out of the system as long as possible. So we try and build in these intervention opportunities that are called diversions, so that they go off on their merry way, and they don't generally reoffend without coming into a courthouse, Maybe being labeled as an offender, missing school because they're at court, these dynamics of labeling are really important in this system, and we try very hard to reduce the negative, uh, labels and stigma associated with being a young offender. 1010 to 10 to 1810 to 18. And this is a breakdown of the offenses. The data that I've used is from the New South Wales Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research. Country's leading best. Crime and Criminal Justice Research Agency. All of this data is freely available, um, spend some time on the Boxer website if you're interested in, uh, crime statistics in New South Wales, there is a treasure trove of information. So a variety of offenses, um, the distinction, those, uh, in the darker blue are proceeded to court, the others are diverted, um, for some offenses we have high rates of diversion, for some offenses we have low rates of diversion. So as the offense gets more serious, you'll get less diversion. What we're trying to say is, most young people commit a small number of offenses and they're generally lower order. Let's not put them into the system and the back end of the system, let's try and keep them out of the system. We know that for many, uh, diversion will be successful, 70% of young people who are diverted don't reoffend. It's cheap. They go to a police station, they get a caution, a police officer wags their finger at them for 15 minutes, says don't do it again, and they don't. Cheap, easy. The mere fact of being caught and apprehended will often be sufficient to jolt them. Whoa, OK, I'm now on the police radar, I've now been apprehended, I've now spent time in a police station. I need to kind of get back on track, and for most young people, that's possible without any government intervention. This does raise a thorny question about who we intervene with and how we intervene. These are difficult policy questions because we don't want to overintervene and spend money for some young people who don't need us, and equally we don't want to under-intervene and have someone go and commit a very serious crime that we knew about. And so we, we have this constant tension in the intervention space, who needs government resources, who will be fine largely without us? And this is a conversation that divides every room I've ever been in. There will be those who are for diversion, there will be those who are against. There will be those who want to intervene early and excessively, and there will be those who say, well, slow down. We've often done bad things trying to intervene early. So let's be careful. Now the point I want to make to you here is also your budding psychologists. You will have a role, but increasingly that role is in an interdisciplinary context. Speech pathologists, occupational therapists, social workers are all kind of vying to work in the same space. I would definitely encourage you to think about how you build bridges to other disciplines and not see yourselves as the only people who can shape and change lives, cause you're not. You may be very good, I've never met you, uh, you may be excellent, but the reality is, You will need to be working in contexts where you're part of, generally, a multidisciplinary team and a multi-disciplinary perspective. Particularly when we think about some of the data that we'll see in a moment. That tells us about the numbers in custody, I've already mentioned this, overwhelming majority are males. This means A number of things, but it means this is true everywhere. Custody is generally dominated by males. Of the 13,000 adults, less than 1000 will be women, the bulk will be males. For the kids, when this data came out, there were 15 girls in custody, that's come down, as I understand it, to about 6. I used to work with the young women in custody and I can assure you they are probably the most marginalized, disadvantaged, harmed and hurt population I've ever encountered. That group struggles to get attention in a system that is dominated by boys, and so much of our literature is often about how to rehabilitate boys, how to rehabilitate men. And so there's a real bias in how we think about interventions, and we often just apply the same logic to girls. When in fact, maybe that is completely problematic given the histories of abuse and neglect, the histories of violence that they've almost always experienced. There are differences, there are similarities, and it can depend because uh someone will often come into custody with a a a a wonderful array of offending behavior. They will be generalists. Um, they won't be specialists per se. Some, some offenders are specialists, they only do the one thing, but many are doing a variety of things. For the girls, there will be drug related offenses will be, uh, often high, there will often be, Uh, robbery offenses, and that often that, in my experience was about getting things that they wanted and needed, um, and violence, uh, often quite a violent, small cohort, um. The young women I worked with a long time ago, we had an enormous an enormous proportion were in for murder, um, And uh really tragic circumstances sit underneath every one of those, um. Young women's stories. So a journey through criminal justice will mean multiple things. Contact with police, contact with uh children's court, potentially contact with criminal justice agencies. What we know is that every step of the process, indigenous young people fare less well. This, you will know, but these figures continue to be alarming. They're in fact, they're getting worse. Despite our efforts around closing the gap. And the money that we are spending, it is getting worse currently. So look at the excessive contact with uh all parts of the criminal justice system. That raises another question. Should our system mostly be geared toward responding to their needs? Where does our evidence of rehabilitation come from? Does it come from indigenous-led research or is it imported from overseas? I can assure you it's mostly imported from overseas. Many of the good theories and the good models have come from places like Canada, the UK. US Are they applicable in a context like Australia with a large land mass, a dispersed population, a neo uh uh a, A colonial context. Should we be looking to have very different ways of responding to the variety of needs of indigenous young people that aren't well captured by an evidence base for a variety of reasons that you can probably imagine. Now, I want to spend a little bit of time with this data, it's a horrible slide, I appreciate. It speaks to three waves of a survey done in detention in New South Wales. Every young person in detention at this kind of the moment that the survey is undertaken and a battery of tests are invited to participate. Not all do, but most do. And this survey collects data across a variety of domains, as you can see listed. These domains show you the experiences of young people in custody at the points at which the data was collected. We have a new set of data about to come out, ah, so there'll be an update soon and it will be the 2022 data, but you'll, it was kind of impacted by COVID, it was harder to collect, so there might be less reliability in that data than these sets. Have a look at that and see if there are any things that surprise you, alarm you, that you want to ask a question about. That you have a solution for, we'd be very interested if you have a solution for any of these things. Percentages, sorry, yes.SPEAKER 0Up and down trend about more like we. Going to Right A Yeah. But like there was like a slight increase. So maybe that's something that is like being addressed.SPEAKER 2Yep. Education, it's a good point. Education is really tricky for kids like this. Education system might say that, uh, under the law, you need to be at school unless you're under the if you're under the age of 17, but in reality, these are kids who are de-schooled early. Schools are not crying out to keep these kids. They will do lots in their power to exclude, whether that's suspension, expulsion, ah, put them into alternative schools, there'll be ways and means to have them not be participating in education. It's a huge risk factor, as you might guess. It's a good point, and they, these kids are called the crossover kids in the literature. They're a group that confound all jurisdictions. Sad reality is that many of those kids have been in out of home care. Their out of home care experiences will probably have been patchy, multiple placements, potentially, some in recent times, you may have seen, ah, the Office of the Advocate for Children and Young People wrote a report saying, Many of these kids have been shipped around motel rooms. Like a small number, 115 I think was the number included in a report by the advocate, ah, that that is, That is a disaster. And so the government's working very hard to try and find alternatives, but these, um, about 14,000 children and young people at any one time in New South Wales are in out of home care. They're removed from families for the reasons that you might guess violence, neglect, abuse, sexual abuse. Our responses, Ah, imperfect. I don't think we will find a perfect solution to that situation, but I can assure you it is damaging and lifelong damaging. Many of those kids are removed before they're 2, and many of those kids are in and out of multiple placements. If you learn anything about attachment theory, it is severed and severed again for many of those kids. Follow-up point. Yep. Um, So about 7 to 8 times the number of indigenous children find themselves in the child protection system. So again, an overrepresentation. Uh, kinship care is a model to try and keep children within their kind of kinship network, rather than say, remove them and then potentially place them in a non-indigenous setting. Uh, there is an enormous amount of work happening to try and, Uh, better respond to the needs of Indigenous First Nations, uh, children, young people and their families. It is complicated. And it is for the workers on the front lines, some of the hardest work they'll do in their lifetime, making decisions about whether to remove or not remove. And for me, the tension is. And I don't say this lightly. If you want a sobering read, then go and read one of the child death review team reports. So that that now sits with the ombudsman in New South Wales, the child death review uh team, uh, historically and continue to analyze all child deaths in New South Wales, some of whom occur for those kids. And you are left in a very tough situation if the violence is such that you think this person is at serious risk of harm, which is the language used in the Child Protection Act. I'm conscious of the history, I'm conscious of what bad outcomes might come if I remove, but I'm also conscious if I leave a child in that context there may be, uh, you know, a fatal outcome. Uh, not easy work and often done by the most senior or the most junior people in the system. The most junior people in the system. So that's the reality of frontline services. Most of our frontline work, where discretion is greatest, is managed by people with the, the least amount of experience. It's true in policing, it's true in child protection system, it's true in many areas. Once you get more experience, you go, I'm kind of moving away from that work. I'll sit in an office somewhere and look at the data. Comment, question? Mhm I can assure you I have no idea. Around that period we had a bump in youth crime and a bump in young people in custody, so I don't know whether we had a group that were not the kind of traditional group that may not have had all of the kind of constellation of risk factors that we would ordinarily see. For this population we see generally, a concentration of risk factors. They, they come. From a variety of contexts where alcohol and other drug use is functional because life is so horrible. The violence is kind of almost normalized. And so you, if you get a bump of kids in at the time the surveys are being done, who are kind of light relief, they're not the, the, um, more obvious candidates to be in detention, maybe it changes your data. That's as best as I can do. Takeout message. These kids have suffered an enormous amount. 81% Yep. 4 Yeah, look, I'd be surprised it change as much, um, for this population. Self-medication is a thing. Uh, there's a wonderful paper written and it's the best version of a research article, uh, because the title tells you everything, you know, don't need to read it. The title of the article was Bored, Curious, and Wanting to Feel Good. Reasons for why Young people in detention Use Drugs. Bored, curious and wanting to Feel good. The self-medication element is, uh, a reality for many of these kids, but so is boredom, and, Experimentation is going to be pronounced in this population. For many of us, we may have kind of experimented on the margins, uh, for some of these kids, you know, they fast go beyond experimentation into really wonderful daily drug use. It is very much a factor, and it's a factor that we're starting to understand much more. Historically, we probably have not been good at assessing or diagnosing, uh, neurodevelopmental impairments. FASD, fetal alcohol spectrum disorder in particular, has roared onto people's consciousness, because of a study done in Western Australia with young people in custody, that discovered when they went into custody, An enormous number of young people had FASD, could be diagnosed with FASD. It raises questions about early diagnosis and, uh, screening, and whether we can do that better earlier to wrap services around children and young people before they end up in places of custody. Um, I've just given you the picture for young women. Because uh the picture is always worse for that subset of, Girls and young women in custody. Higher levels of out of home care, Higher levels of parental incarceration, higher levels of um severe abuse. Higher levels of mental disorders and distress, much higher levels of self-harm, and working with young women in custody, this was very pronounced for me. I was um, devastated to see the amount of self-harm and suicide ideation. Head injuries And um Quite a number have been pregnant before 14. So I will go back to this question and just say very quickly, I'm gonna teach an intensive later this week on that model, so I'm not gonna give you the uh 4 day version, but just give you the, 10, 4 minute version, 4 minute version. So if we're to think about prevention, so we don't want those things to happen. No police officer signs up to lock kids up. No Children's Court magistrate wants to spend their days hearing about the kind of trauma and the devastation in kids' lives and make decisions about removal or uh when they're sitting in the criminal court, locking kids up. Everyone wants prevention, but prevention is difficult. These are the four main ways we prevent crime. Criminal justice we know about, but it's a blunt instrument. It's a blunt instrument because if we wait for the criminal justice system to kick in, we already have victims. Criminal justice system can only do so much, and it seeks to prevent reoffending. We're not particularly great at it. It is expensive, and so ultimately, our prevention approaches, Need to be elsewhere, they need to be embedded in systems that aren't criminal justice systems. That means the bottom two are very important. And I would say we're seeing maybe a resurgence of interest in social prevention because of what we're seeing at the moment. I talk to lots of police and corrections staff in my work these days, and I can assure you, They are telling me that they are worried about what they think is ah erosion of social cohesion. They're seeing it in various ways. You saw the police officers, ah, tragically shot down in Victoria by a kind of supposed sovereign citizen. We are seeing anti-gover government rhetoric, we are seeing far-right rhetoric, we are seeing hate crime, we are seeing, Online grooming, we are seeing a variety of things that, for many, suggest a bit of a, if, not just a bit of a fraying, but ah quite a fraying of social fabric. So how do we respond? Well, one way is to try and build community. Connect people. I think it's increasingly important that we're hearing so much loneliness, so much time spent online, so many people being radicalized by virtue of the time they've spent online. Coming together, I think is always important, but increasingly important. So doing that well, means that we can build connections between people. If I know you, in many instances, there are exceptions of course, but if I know you, I might be less likely to harm you. And so trying to build local connections through community programs and activities, after school activities, is ah the, the work of the social system to prevent future crime. This is probably the one that is most relevant to you, and it is where we get the best evidence of success. Our good longitudinal studies tell us that if we do good early intervention, we might save $7 on every $1 spent. The Peri preschool program, the Elmira nurse visiting program, these are programs that showed over the life course, If we get early life, Right, we save enormous amounts and people, Don't head down the path of crime and disorder and imprisonment, they head towards civic participation, employment, paying taxes, being in relationships, raising healthy children. So the early intervention is very much the uh most, Persuasive form of prevention, particularly for governments who keep saying, You keep telling me you're gonna stop people coming into prison, but our prison numbers are still high, and I still have to spend $2 billion running those prisons. When is the early intervention gonna kick in and stop people harming each other, stealing things, and coming into criminal justice? Yes, and lots of this stuff we do and we do in ways that are often not easily observed. So we provide an enormous number of services in uh any jurisdiction in Australia. Some of them are nurse visit programs where every newborn will receive a visit from a nurse to check in. Then it might extend to a variety of parenting programs, either pre or post-birthing experience. There will be efforts to try and boost maternal health, because we know poor maternal health will often lead to poor, uh, early life experience. Many of you might know about the 1st 1000 days movement around the world looking at, Really investing heavily in the 1st 3 years of life, because we know that a variety of positive outcomes will be derived, If we do that well. Now, the last one I want to point to is situational prevention, this is the one most people don't know about. It partially is born out of psychology. And it is very much about making it harder to commit offenses. Now, the obvious point to make is, people say, well, if you make it harder, won't they just go somewhere else? There's evidence to say no, we're mostly a lazy species, and if you make it harder to do bad things, I just stop doing bad things. So, What are the examples? We can make it very difficult to steal motor vehicles, we can make it very difficult to do bank robberies. When was the last bank robbery you heard of? They don't happen. All those movies premised on bank robberies, robberies are a thing of the past, mostly, we've made it impossible. Effectively, to rob a bank. We can make things harder to do and we can get positive outcomes. And so there's lots of evidence to say, Designing out opportunities for crime will deliver ah good outcomes in terms of reduction. How did they think about this? Some of the first theorists thought about this through observing suicide rates in the United Kingdom, where they changed the mix of gas coming into the home, and they discovered that when it was non-lethal, there was a drop in suicide rates. Now that's interesting, like there are a variety of ways that you might take your own life, but if you make one of those less palatable and less uh available, You get quite a shift in behavior. There are examples, lots of examples, but people say it speaks to the nanny state and it freaks people out, but random breath testing has done an enormous amount of good. Seatbelts have done an enormous amount of good. There are some things that we have just built into our environments that keep people alive, and reduce the, the crime in certain communities. So situational cues that shape, How we react and respond in certain environments, very much an environmental, psychological kind of, ah, dimension to situational prevention. Now, I haven't got long, so I'm gonna do a very quick shameless plug. Look away if you hate shameless plugs. Um, this is a small research center that we've set up that has an applied lens. We're very interested in working closely with criminal justice agencies. We have a newsletter, uh, one's about to go out, you can sign up for. Today's newsletter is about to. I tell you about some wonderful resources developed here at the university to try and disrupt negative life outcomes. We have created an enormous amount of content at the university, uh, from the Matilda Center, the Brain and Mind Centre, uh, the Disability Research Policy Group, uh, and a number of other parts of the uni. For me, it is about interdisciplinarity. None of the problems I confront in my work or that I see in the criminal justice system will be solved by a single discipline. If we are not thinking in an interdisciplinary way, I think we are barking up a lonely tree. So, ah, I would encourage you, if you're interested, sign, uh, join us and come to some of the events. We held a really good criminal justice careers event last Wednesday, which you missed, but, ah, it was fantastic, and that's where, We heard Corrective Services in particular saying, please send us your people, um. We have over 150 research centers at the uni. You are a student of the University of Sydney, you might sit in the School of Psychology but see yourself as a student of the uni. There is an enormous amount of stuff happening that may not be completely in your purview, that is tremendously valuable. Free events, networking events, research, research assistant opportunities. Enormous amount of work that you can. Tap into, and I would say all of these that I've listed have got something to do in the areas that I'm interested in. People will say, what's the Nano Institute got to do with criminal justice? Of the many things they do, they have created a thing called photonic radar that detects sign of life. We lose an enormous number, well, we lose a number of prisoners every year who die in their cells. Often they don't get to the knock-up button, which is a button to communicate with the staff to say I'm unwell or I'm dying. There's ways that we could use technology really effectively in places like that. The Communication Disorders Treatment and Research Center obviously has a role to play in the criminal justice context, given the very high levels of ah, speech and language disorders. Uh, we produced a book, you should buy it, and we've published some stuff talking about this work and the interdisciplinary work that we've been doing. Um, I just want to finish, we've been doing a project recently, uh, I'll just go, uh, looking at the use of social media by young people involved in crime. And so you will have seen headlines of this kind, uh, every jurisdiction is grappling with this, and we are hearing, we are hearing quite, Troubling stories from police, and I just want to mention a couple, just to give you a sense of the contemporary research that we're doing. So we spoke to a number of uh police about what they're seeing. On the ground with young people and their use of social media to amplify their offending. The stories that we're hearing, particularly from far west New South Wales, young people once would have crept into a home, probably stolen the car keys to steal the car. Now they do it for the purposes of performance. They might go armed, and they might sit across a victim, holding a knife to the neck to film it, to get the reaction. They may degrade the victim in various ways, they then take the car keys, and what do they do, they drive around the police station waiting to get chased. Because this all makes good theater. This is wonderful on TikToks, they, they, you know, it's kind of a logic. I've heard police saying they've, you know, they stop pursuits at a certain speed, but they've, uh, had kids in cars going over 300 kilometers an hour. They've stopped cars and 7 or 8 kids climb out of the back, some of them as young as 6 and 7 years of age, driven by a 14 year old. I don't want to be on the road when that 14 year old is driving at 200 kilometers. So we've been hearing a number of kind of concerning things about technology and, and the intersection with crime, which I think is very much a contemporary and future problem. It's very hard to um tell because the data, The data tells us that motor vehicle theft has shot up in certain parts of New South Wales, like 120% increase in parts of New South Wales in the last 18 months. But it's hard to unpack whether that is related to this behavior or separate. And so what we don't get data on are all of those kind of aggravating variables. Uh, we've been working with some colleagues in digital cultures who have been scraping TikTok and looking at TikTok, uh, TikTok videos. Um They've found some interesting stuff, but we just don't know the volumes. People I talk to say it's a real problem and our system isn't very well. Uh, designed to respond. Generally yes, generally yes, you would see in a population the age crime curve, uh, the age crime curve says sort of between 17 and 24, roughly will be the peak offending years in life. There's been some argument in New South Wales with the reduction in youth crime that we've flattened the age crime curve, some wonderful, um, some wonderful graphs in that book, ah. Uh, self plug, but the Jackie Fitzgerald's the chief crime statistician in New South Wales, some amazing graphs about the flattening of the age crime curve, but generally speaking, yes, but there is this kind of aging out. And so that encourages us to think about life course. What does this look like? Why do some people start offending and don't stop, why do some people, Commit one or two offenses and give up, why do some people around late adolescences seem to get involved in offending and stop? Ah, lots of unknowns, uh, but generally yes. So, I'm going to end, you've got a couple of moments if you want to ask questions and then I will depart. No, sorry.SPEAKER 0strategies like Yes.SPEAKER 2No.SPEAKER 0Evaluation Layoff depends on how how long we actually.SPEAKER 2OK, so tough question, good question, tough question to answer quickly. Many of these programs work very well in the small. So I set up a program in a location because I'm passionate and dedicated to it and it works. Someone does an evaluation and says, oh, isn't that exciting, now let's do it in 50 spots. That we don't do as well. Scaling up is a real challenge, why? Because often, I have, A passion to make it work. When I recruit 50 people who tell me at interview they've got the same passion I have, I can't roll my eyes, no one can have the same passion I have, and, and what you end up with is a diminished product. So rolling out programs statewide or countrywide is a really significant challenge. Do things fluctuate? Absolutely. There is probably levels of service delivery that are relatively constant. And we do a lot. The one thing I say to my students, do not write an essay telling me that we're not doing anything. We are doing an enormous amount. Whether we like what we're doing and whether it works, they're conversations I'm happy to have, but we spend big chunks of money in health, in education, in child protection, trying to do something about these conditions and circumstances. Up the back. Yep. I agree with you. So is there any sort of breach? you guys Yes, and it's an excellent question and it's a real conundrum because my discipline is mostly focused on urban problems. And so context of crime in rural locations, which is where we have our highest hotspots, the greatest rates of crime in New South Wales are all outside of Sydney. Uh, the answer in part is yes, justice reinvestment programs in some towns that are about kind of localized responses, particularly indigenous-led, uh, is very significant. There is an attempt to respond to particular context. You might know that there was a parliamentary inquiry into youth crime in regional cities and regional towns. I think, you know, amongst many challenges is how do we deliver services in areas that are hard to attract a workforce. I guarantee you the police pay a lot extra to send a police officer to Bourke or Bree, or Walgett or Wilcannia than they do to have them in Bankstown. I guarantee every government agency struggles to have a workforce in regional New South Wales. They are crying out for people. If you want to return to your town of origin, I guarantee you there's a job for you in the criminal justice system if you want it. So it's a real problem because we then end up having a fly in, fly out workforce in some towns, and people don't love the idea that their allied health team fly in for 4 hours on a Monday morning. They want workers in town. So, excellent question. Yep. State to state, region to region, it is, but it is often not about the desire to have services in those locations, it's about having a workforce in that location. I know the police because I've worked for the police for a period, they will put you on a 3-year rotation out to the bush if you put your hand up, they'll probably subsidize your housing, they'll give you extra leave, and then they'll give you priority placement, probably to a coastal town, probably around Coffs Harbour, which is where everyone wants the police, um. Uh, once you've done your 3 years, but I sat in a room full of police counting down how many days they had left. They didn't want to be there. What does that do for your kind of relationship to community, and how does community feel about the next wave of cops who turn up going, 1,384 days to go. It doesn't do much. So, uh, yes, and yes, kind of regional differences. Final question.SPEAKER 0um. About uh what the So Yep. Yeah. Yep. But are there any big projects and you know, addressing this, especially this point of view of Uh, Communities thatSPEAKER 2care is a model that I think is worth looking at. It's predominantly out of the US from Seattle, but it, ah, has been picked up, particularly in Victoria. It is an attempt to try and say, how do we understand at a, a kind of population, or at a community population level, what the problems are, but what are the strengths and assets, and how do we rally people around. Often if you badge a program as a crime prevention program, no-one's interested in it. Why would I turn up to that, I'm not a crook. So if you kind of badge it as something else, then maybe you get people turning up. And to be honest, I'm a bit agnostic about what it is, it's just about bringing people together. That could be sport, that could be religion, that could be music, it could be culture. There are programs in regional cities where they had a net, Target to lose weight as a population. OK, that is a crime prevention benefit to that, absolutely, particularly if you're out walking. Wonderful way to keep eyes and ears on the street and lose some weight and meet neighbors. So communities that care does have a psychological dimension. It was developed by Richard Catalano, who I think was a psychologist. Um, so that's certainly one I would look at, and John Tombourou down in Victoria is, uh, I believe a psychologist, uh, who kind of believes in social psychology and the impact in communities rather than just individual by individual kind of, uh, interventions. Thank you so much for your time.SPEAKER 1Thank you. Alright, well, that was great, yeah, well, we'll be in touch soon, but it's the thing, yeah. All right, well, so everyone. Think about all that wonderful stuff about the world and we'll return to the world of laboratory shortly. Uh, but in, in the. Meantime, does anyone see any connection, there's a lot of discussion here that connects to some of your tutorial work. Does anyone see, anyone see those connections? So for example, we talked about return on investment of youth crime programs versus early intervention. Does that remind anyone? Of a graph that we all looked at in tutorial, yeah. Anyway, so it's good, uh, you know, um, good to have the, have these great connections there. For example, we looked at, you know, the Heckman 2006 analysis of how, you know, early intervention is the best investment in human capital that governments can make, right? In case you didn't believe me, uh. Or Heckman He was talking about those same types of issues, right? Those types of nurses showing up, right, to someone's house, right? a million, a million dollars a year to keep a kid in jail. How much less money does it cost to give that kid free childcare? Much less than a million dollars a year, right? Of course there's more kids, but you could sort of see all those types of, all those types of, these are also all things that are relevant for your essay on eradicating poverty and how, what the outcomes could be for child development. Right? How many of these things he didn't, about how many of these issues on, on those graphs are poverty related? Right, a whole lot of them. Um So I'm trying to get my slides while talking. So hopefully that was inspiring and many, many of you may go off and Decide to be a, you know, youth psychologist in a, in an area of need regionally. Um Uh So, we usually will have a nice break, but we're kind of running short on time given how enthusiastic everyone was for the questions. But you'll probably have way fewer questions and less enthusiasm for the next lecture. So don't worry. Yes Oh, Uh All right. Alright, again, apologies for having to go right into the second part. We will try to have a 5, 10 minute break, typically, moving forward, but for time, we do have to, uh, move right on. 