All right, so now we're talking about for the next 6.5 weeks, uh, we're talking about cognitive development, right, after this, the first half on sort of social and moral, things like that. How about cognition. And so what is everyone sort of. Doing here, right? Oh yeah, so today we're gonna talk about some classic theories of cognitive development. Then we're gonna do a bunch of work on conceptual development. Maybe I'll sort of skip this outline because we're a few minutes behind. You'll see what happens. All right. So the learning outcome for sort of basically every people always want a little more of an emphasis on what the learning outcomes are, and this is related to. How we're phrasing the, framing the essay as well, right? What we're really concerned in child development and cognitive development here is scientific argumentation, right? What is the argument for the theory, what is the argument for the theory in question? When I'm presenting to you, I'm presenting to you a particular experiment, I don't really care if you sort of remember all the specifics of the experiment. What matters is how that evidence is used to build an argument for some kind of theory. Right? Now for in in science, we have empirical evidence that is often the basis for these arguments, but there's still a bunch of sort of logical inference and structure around making this argument that is critical beyond simply remembering the facts of the experiment. Now, you will primarily be assessed on your understanding in the, of the empirical research in terms of how it supports some argument, right? So, there might be a couple of multiple-choice questions that kind of just ask you for some definitions of some concepts, uh, but the vast majority of them will be this paper, how did this paper support this guy's theory? That's the kind of question that will be sort of assessed, and so that's the type of way we have to think about this, right? Now, these, the primary arguments are explaining key developmental patterns. Why? Does, why does the behavior look the way it does? Right, why doesn't it look some other way? Also, there are arguments for interventions to improve outcomes, right? So how might you, right, so for example, we might argue, why would, uh, you know, nurse visits on a weekly basis potentially prevent crime, right? Before you propose that nurse visits program or something like that, I mean, it's doing more than crime, but whatever it is, the things we were just learning about, if you have to propose to the government, this is how we should prevent crime, how might you propose that? Right, you're probably gonna have to look at a whole lot of evidence of what we understand about youth crime and what we don't know, what we do know and go, this is what we need to do, right? So our arguments are both for sort of basic theories of like how to explain whatever the basic issue is, but also arguments for the kind of interventions that might be most helpful. Right? And if you're doing anything like writing a grant one day for something. Whether you're in, whether you're in psychology or any other sort of you're writing the government, you wanna make a film cos you're, or whatever, you're gonna have to sort of make some argument that this is the right thing to be doing. All right, in cognitive development, what is everyone arguing about? So, the primary, the the the, the number one question in cognitive development. Is where does knowledge come from? As in, how, how is it that we have anything in our minds about the world? Right, now And through this, I'm not distinguishing true knowledge versus sort of false beliefs. Maybe people believe the wrong thing, and some people might think it doesn't count as knowledge. In a sort of descriptive sense, we have things in our minds that are about the world in some way. We have memories about the world, you know, uh. Etc. about other people, this is objects, events, people, the country we live in, whatever it is, how is it that we have anything in our minds at all? And then within that we might go, well, how do these processes might change the development? It's something about how an infant Uh, learns about the world different from how an adult learns about the world. Or infants just sort of little adults. How then might we use that knowledge to think? And how does this change in development? But the primary thing, so, and, and some of these are pretty sort of big theories of how all the origin of our minds, right? Often I feel like when we're in cog if you're in sort of cognitive psychology or you're in like learning and behavior or something like that, we often have models of like specific kinds of things, right? You're like, oh, here's how people make deci financial decisions or something like that. Let's say you're making, you're in deci you're in a decision-making unit in uh cognition or something like that, and you're learning about, oh, this is the types of biases people have when they're kind of making their choices, right? That's kind of constrained to that particular domain. And sort of cognitive development, a lot of what sort of doing, something to start the field is like, how do our minds come to exist at all? Right, such that you could then make a decision about what to buy or whatever. All right, so where is, well, what is knowledge? Well, The explanation that we get is very much tied in a way to what we think knowledge is like as an adult as well. For Piaget. This means structured symbolic knowledge. It means he thinks we have symbols in our minds that are sort of representative of things in the world, and these symbols have structures, and when we're thinking, we're doing something like logical mathematical operations with the symbols in our mind. All right, so we might be thinking, if we're gonna kind of do reasoning about something, we can say, OK, well, what do you wanna do tomorrow? Well, you might go, OK, what, you might sort of think in your mind, you will sort of simulate all the possibilities of tomorrow. You kind of think, well, if I do this, then that will have, oh, if I go to the, uh, you know, I don't know if I go to class, I'll. Not be as fun as if I go to the beach or whatever. You can sort of sit, sit, think all these things through. You have an ability to consider all these possibilities, you're doing stuff to your concepts. You have a bunch of concepts in your mind like the beach, and then you're doing things with them, like, what will happen if I go to the beach, right? You're sort of operating on these ideas in your mind. And so Page is interested in how do we get to a point where we have things in our mind such that we can think with them. He rejects the idea of innate knowledge, he just sort of starts with the assumption that there is no innate knowledge. You are born with no knowledge, and then at some point later, you have knowledge. So what he's trying to do is sort of capture that process. And PSJ basically sort of founded the field in a, in a sort of, in a reasonable sense. Oh, it says 2. I've, I've cut it to 1. So I'm just gonna start this, we'll see if we can get through, we'll see how we go. I might, we might bleed into the next one, but that's fine. Uh, We're gonna try to sort of talk about the basic assumptions of Piaget and the basic and the contrast with two people who've criticized his view. So we're just going to start with Page and I'm gonna talk about his account of infancy, where he's just gonna be basically, we're supposed to be describing. He's, he's just gonna sort of take you through the first two years of life, where he goes from an, an, an infant that knows nothing to a, a 2 year old who's now speaking. And what is happening during infancy to allow this sort of transformation. So I'll try to look around to see if people, please ask questions as we go. Uh To you, many of you should be. Familiar with some of this, if you have read the chapter that was on um. For for for this week's quiz as well, so this is all very sort of familiar to you, I'm sure. Right, so. There are 4 big stages of cognitive development in PSA, the sensory motor period, the pre-operational period, concrete, and then beyond from there. The tutorial this week deals with the transition from the pre-operational to the concrete operational, and today we're gonna talk about the sensory motor. Right? So, this is a very quick, you all read the you all read the chapter, we don't have to go through this, right? Sensory motor is infancy, right, where it's sensory and it's just sort of, there's just, you're just sensing things and you're moving. Not a whole lot is happening in the infant's mind, according to Page at this point. Just sort of coordinating how to look around the world and how to move around the world. Those types of coordinating perception action schemes is all that's really happening at this point. Right? And then in tutorial, we talk about the next couple of stages. So why don't we just ask. Allow that to go there where we have plenty of time, 2 hours to discuss about the pre-operational and concrete operational phase. So there's also these things that are sort of stage independent processes. Right? So there's assimilation and accommodation, which you might have heard these terms before. So at any given moment, where you have the basic idea is that children are developing these schemes. In the sensory motor period, they're like sensory and motor schemes rather than sort of more complex abstract schemes. Right? So it could be like grasping, right? A scheme, a very early scheme for an infant is learning how to grasp an object. Right? So, All right, let's say you've grasped rattles or you've grasped fingers. All right, I know this is not relevant anymore because newspapers don't exist, but if you had to, if let's say you were an infant trying to grasp a newspaper, you would have to kind of grasp it in a different way than you grasped someone's finger, grasped a rattle, right? Picking up a piece of paper is kind of weird. Right? There's other kinds of objects that might, might take different grasping. The, the infant will have to sort of change its understanding of grasping to, to grasp objects of different shapes and different textures and different masses. Right, so, also, let's say you are traveling in a new country and you're having an or you're, you've never left the city before, you go out to the region or something like this. You have a new experience. Right, presumably it's more complex than grasping an object because you're an adult who is traveling, right? But this, but however, how much of what you know from your culture will apply to this new culture. Right, assimilation is the idea that where you basically have something new experience, but you basically can apply all your past understanding to this new experience and it goes pretty smoothly. You can just kind of, uh, OK, like, here's a new object, here's a new culture, I can pretty much apply what I know and I'm fine. Accommodation is when you have to change the schema in your mind to be able to handle the new situation. Whether it's grasping or a new, a new culture. Right, so this sort of complementary, complementary process of assimilating versus accommodating applies to you throughout the lifespan, regardless whether you're in the sensory motor page or the adult phase. So Within the sensory motor page, I'm just sort of bits are just kind of extra little questions. Within the sensory motor page phase, there are 6 little phases. And that's what we're gonna be talking about, the 6 little phases. We will go through them one at a time for you to get, not because you have to memorize, you're you're not gonna have an exam question that's like, what's the difference between the secondary circular reaction and the primary circular reaction. All right. This is just to, you get a sense of what his theory building was. What was the evidence, how is he sort of using his evidence to construct this idea of his theory, which we will sort of go through this sort of sequence and then construct how he's using this evidence to build his argument. So Scrutiny of the sensory motor period. And the processes described therein. Reveals to us the core Page's theory and his belief. It's what I call the necessary part of the theory. This is about how children go from not knowing anything, he assumes that you start out at birth with reflexes. You do, you don't have, you have no knowledge, right? But if you put a, you know, you present a newborn infant with a nipple, it will know what to do. You present it with a finger, it will grasp your hand around its finger, you put a finger in the newborn's hand, it could grasp it, right? There's a couple of basic reflexes that appear to be hardwired to for for one way to think about it. Right, So the first phase is what happens is the modification of those reflexes. So He, so Piaget is one of these kind of Western philosopher types who kind of thinks. The formal operations period, when we get to the abstract thought, we're going from this, he wants to get us to this point where the cognition of the human thinker in this kind of enlightenment way is like this beautiful, uh, you know, our ability to think logically and mathematically is kind of the pinnacle of evolution, and us humans are sort of wonderful in our thinking ability. Uh, but how do we get there? So the formal opera, he wants to get us to the formal operations, but we have to, but we start out at the sensory motor period. So before we can get to the formal operations using symbolic representations, the 1st 2 years is all about how do you get symbolic representations. All right, the modification of reflexes, right? At birth, children are a bundle of reflexes, put a finger in its hand, the baby grasps it, presents a nipple, it sucks it, as I said. But then through this period, reflexes are modified. The hand position of grasping, a rattle versus a finger, etc. Behaviors such as sucking, grasping and looking do not remain reflexes. Babies can produce them spontaneously. Right, so even look, right, so you, the idea is that they go from only doing these things in response to stimuli to kind of realizing you can do these things on purpose. Right, I can grasp things on purpose. I don't have to wait until something is put into my hand. So there's agency from the beginning. The PSA thinks of the child as the agent of their own development. They the child realizes I can do things. And, and you're and once you're once the child realizes they can do things, you're kind of, you know, off to the races from there. Now, in this earlier phase, what doing things means is just like grasping, but it's something. Right. Page claims there's an innate tendency for humans to exercise their skills. Alright, so throughout the sensory motor period. There is this organization in the, in the mind, but it's only about regularities in action and perception. Not necessarily an abstract understanding. Stage 2, primary circular reaction. By chance, the baby discovers an interesting result from some behavior, then attempts to recapture it, right? So, so they started realizing I can grasp on my own. I don't have to just respond to a I don't have to just respond to something being put in my hand, I can grasp it. So, however, let's say they're grasping lots of stuff, they might sort of realize something interesting kind of happened. They're basically reinforced, so they're sort of behaving, they're just doing, they have, they can do 6 things, they're sort of doing them randomly, and then they sort of, then they get sort of reinforced with some kind of result of interest. These are circular reactions that are called primary because they involve response consequences that are centered on or around the infant's body rather than other objects. The performance of circular reactions seems to be accompanied by feelings of pleasure. For example, the result of successfully grasping something is pleasurable. So it was repeated, like, it feels good in my hand to always be grasping this thing. The focus is on the action though, not the object. So even if, even if they're, they're getting the pleasure from successfully grasping the object, the idea is that they're still focusing on the grasping itself and not necessarily what the object is up to. Well, he was saying the motivation is there from the beginning. Right, so the motivation is that, so the question was for people who couldn't hear, is this the development of motivation? Say stage one, so he said he's assuming that what's innate is reflexes and the motivation to do things, and your ability to learn. From the, from the very beginning. So very early on, the they they sort of discovered that they can do these grasping or whatever else, and then they like doing it. You're like, hey, I can, I'm a baby, I can do 5 things, I'm gonna do all 5 of them, right? You know, and then presumably you can do more things, right? And then you sort of start being randomly, there's some sort of pleasure, there's an intrinsic pleasure in doing the things you are capable of doing. And then that leads to repeating those things, right? And so, and that's what's sort of building up from here. So Right, so then the secondary circular reaction, the infant is starting to notice the effects of the things they're doing, right? So I, oh, grasping is pretty fun, shaking around this rattles pretty fun. Oh, the rattle's making noise, the noise is cool, why don't I make more of the noise? Right? So like every little bit, there's like this new step in their understanding. Right, so they're starting to, so now they're trying to go the primary is to focus on their bodies, and the secondary is starting to be noticed on the things that their bodies are interacting with. And he's saying this is around 4 to 8 months. Again, the exact months of these isn't doesn't really matter, you don't have to memorize which one was at 4 months and which one was at 10 months or whatever. Um. We're just sort of getting a sense of what he's sort of talking about. So now, one of the things important here is the integration of vision and grasping is useful. So this is, we're talking about this a lot, multi-sensory integration. Right? There's a coordination between looking at something and doing something with it. And you, in more modern research methods than PageJ had, you put little eye trackers on a baby's head, right? You attach a little GoPro camera to their forehead, right? And you can look at what they're, they and they look at toys, they kind of move their head, and you can sort of see over the first couple of months of life, they, they start out sort of looking at objects pretty much randomly. They sort of have a new object, they kind of look at it randomly, and then as they get more experience, they kind of systematically scan objects. They sort of realize if I look at an object this way. I can kind of gain an understanding of what its deal is more efficiently. And so they you become better at looking at stuff. Over the first few months of life and a coordinating how you can then handle it. So I'm gonna pick this thing up and put it in my mouth, right? Infants do that a lot, right? You have to sort of figure out how to do that. That's a big accomplishment the first time they figure that out, right? Um, sounds easy. But it takes a little while, right? So, they're increasing their repertoire of the number of things they can do with objects and how they coordinate their perception and their action. None of them are committing crimes yet, make a connection to previous part, yeah, so. That's, yeah, so, uh, In this stage Infants, so now the coordination of secondary schemes. Infants know what they want. They can put together schemes to achieve that goal. They have differentiated means and ends. So this is now in this next coordination of secondary schemes. So, so now they've differentiated. The instrumental behavior and the outcome of that behavior. And when you've kind of parsed actions into the ins the means and the ends, you can start kind of recombining them in new ways. So, for example, if they know about grasping and they know about moving things out of the way, they might go, oh, I can move this thing out of the way to grasp the thing I want. So they have, they've started to coordinate these different action, sensory action routines. So There's also an example being anticipate events. Here is now Page. So a lot of this work, he's kind of up, so he's, so he started with just a couple of his, his own children. He's like sort of taking notes. Of what his kids are up to. He's also devising little experiments to do with his kids, and we'll show you some videos. I think next time we'll, we'll show you some, you know, uh, um, videos of some of the infant experiments that were kind of in the context of more modern research, but, Here's an example. So he's saying, the subject is his nine month old infant. He seems to just be watching his wife raise his children while he's with a note notebook, writing everything down. It's very helpful as the father just be writing notes down. All right, so. She likes the grape juice in a glass, but not the soup in a bowl. She watches her mother's activity. When the spoon comes out of the glass, she opens her mouth wide. Whereas when the spoon comes from the bowl, her mouth remains closed, right? So this is, you know, she likes what's in the glass and doesn't like what's in the bowl. Right? Her mother tries to lead her to make a mistake by taking a spoon from the bowl and passing it by the glass before offering it to Jacqueline, the daughter. But she is not fooled, right? You're like, oh, maybe, you know, you like this, you know, you like the juice, you don't like the soup or whatever. I'm gonna make you kind of think that maybe the juice is the, or the soup is the juice by like moving it around. But perhaps this would have worked on a 4 month old, but the 9 month old is like, no, no, I know. Which is the thing I like. Um, and John is not helping feed the children. So, maybe he did, I don't know. I mean, I don't know, but that didn't really do that until like 5 years ago. So, right. In this stage, Um, so tertiary circular reaction from 12 to 18 months. In this stage, we see infant scientists at work. The environment is their laboratory. They perform miniature experiments in which they deliberately vary in action in order to see how this variation affects the outcome. Right? Rather than just sort of using these means and ends combin novel combinations to get what they want. They start being like, oh, what if I just, I wanna figure out what's going on in the world. If I throw a ball this hard, it bounces this far. If I throw it harder, it bounces further. I'm actually just bounce this ball and see what happens. Right, so you see lots of sort of repeated behaviors, which appear to be, uh, you know, with, with some variation, like, I'm just gonna kind of vary this a little bit. To kind of see how the world works. Now, this is still all in the world of, of perception and action, right? He wouldn't say, even though he's saying infant scientists. He will also say that not until the sort of concrete operations are, are they capable of hypothesis testing. But that, this has to do with a kind of merely limited to the perceptual realm, like the it's a purely kind of physical realm. He's not, you're not sort of being a scientist thinking about sort of causality and in a kind of deeper level. But the basic nature of exploration is still in there from the beginning, according to PAJ or like, you know, at least they now have the ability to do this at, at in the, in the second year of life. Now, in the, in the second half of the 2nd year. It's called mental combinations. And here there's innovation, how they're combining all the different behavioral schemes to solve novel problems. So what does this mean? Here's an example. At 18 months of age, Her a different uh child, Lucien. Lucienne plays with the doll carriage whose handle comes to the height of her face. She rolls it over the carpet by pushing it. When she comes against a wall, she pulls, walking backward. But as this position is not convenient for her, she pauses and without hesitation, goes to the other side to push the carriage again. She therefore found the procedure in one attempt, apparently through analogy to other situations, without training, apprenticeship or chance. Right, so, again, this isn't maybe to an adult sound like that big of an accomplishment where she Gets her little like carri stuck, and then she just kind of moves around and moves it and gets it unstuck, but before 18 months of age, she may not have been incapable of figuring this out. Right? So every little, so she's now able to problem solve, this is a totally new problem, she's never dealt with this before, but she's figured out how her actions affect objects, she's done a lot of experimenting, and now she can sort of put these new combinations together to sort of solve these new problems. Now, here's the critical thing of this, this stage 6 is the final stage of the sensory motor period. And here's the kind of critical transition that is happening in these mental combinations. Children have displayed their thinking to the world, but now the overt is becoming covert. External physical exploration gives way to internal mental exploration. All this is possible because children can now use mental symbols to represent objects and events. So for example, how might you, so he thinks they're these key experiences. That get people that get children to kind of understand the correspondence between the thing being represented and the thing that's doing the representing, the symbol and the referent. For example, playing with a matchbox, which is not necessarily a great thing for infants to be doing, but say you're playing with a matchbox, it opens and closes. And the child may open and close her mouth in correspondence. They go, oh, then you, then you have this insight. That the mouth opening can stand for the box opening. Has a representational stance, right? You know, this painting, uh, this painting of my mom is a representation of my mom. The painting is different, but it's about my mom, or whatever it is. So, the idea is that this transition from the sensory motor period into the next period is understanding the nature of symbols. Cause once you have, once you understand symbols, you can start thinking. Detached from your immediate physical reality. You can start thinking sort of inside your mind about things through these symbols, rather than. Uh, just like moving things around and seeing how they bounce and grasp and whatever else. So he's trying to say, you basically had this, you kind of get this correspondence and then you can somehow internalize this notion. And one of the things you can tell this is happening is because they're also learning words. Words are symbolic in the sense, right? So what the sound of a word has a referent to something in the world. There's nothing about the sound itself, like cat versus boy versus house, or, you know, mom. Right? None of those words, the sound doesn't tell you what the thing is in like the, the nature, like the, in the acoustic properties, right? The acoustic properties are like, oh, you know, unlike say a word like meow, where you're just sort of making the sound, right? Then the acoustic properties does have something to do with the actual referent, right? But once you're sort of learning words and in the second year of life, this rapidly increases, and we'll talk all about that in a couple of weeks, uh, God bless you. Um, and then, But this is a, a sign that they sort of they're trying to understand the natures of symbols. And once you have symbols, that's what you need to start thinking. And that's the transition from this kind of infancy. Into other things. All right, so children have displayed their thinking to the world, right? All this is possible because children can now use mental symbols to represent objects and events. When faced with a problem that past methods do not solve, Lucian thinks through the problem partly by means of movements of the mouth and partly by thinking. She is in transition to a true use of mental symbols. So And so in in PSA's language is called the semiotic function. Semiotic function is basically the understanding of symbols. So, think about how a child might engage in symbolic play, right, after this, you'll see symbolic play as well. You might be like, oh, it's an airplane with your hand or something. So he's gone through these 6 sort of mini phases of birth through, you know, 18 months to 2 years of age. Where he's gone from having reflexes to a series of, um, a series of exploration and continued exploration and experience leads to a greater kind of abstraction of how you can sort of move and see the world, and this sort of leads to this key insight that the world can be represented by others. Things in the world can be represented by other things. And then, You put it and then you can internalize those representations. Now Why does this happen? Well, he says because it allows you to interact on the world more adequately. The idea is that each of these. Each of these steps, you're driven through these steps because they help you achieve your goals better. Right? If you want something. Right, your reflexes don't really meet your goals if you kind of want those things. When they're not being presented to you. Right, you have to go out and get them. Right, so, so children want to go out and get stuff. They have motivations, they have goals, and step by step, they are kind of modifying their schemes to sort of better achieve their goals. Right? And the in this correspondence, this understanding of symbols allows them to better achieve their goals, because now they can kind of plan. Now you can, now you have an internal life to help you reason about your interactions rather than sort of simply having different kinds of routines that you can sort of mix and match while doing them. You can think it through before you do it. Right, which will improve your ability to do things. So he, so he views this as having this trajectory of becoming like more competent. Right, this is why all this development is happening. Children are motivated and they're constantly figuring things out to sort of help themselves. So To his mind, So Jean Pier wrote The Psychogenesis of Knowledge. What does that mean? Psychogenesis, as in the psychological creation of knowledge. He says So 50 years of experience have taught us that knowledge does not result from a mere recording of observations without a structuring activity on the part of the subject, nor do any a priori or innate coveting structures exist in man. The functioning of intelligence alone is hereditary and creates structures only through an organization of successive actions performed on objects. Consequently, an epistemology conforming to the data of psychogenesis could neither be empiricist nor pre-formationist, but could only consist of a constructivism with a continual elaboration of new operations and structures. All right, what does this mean? He is rejecting both what you, so he can preformationism is nativism. This is a rejection of say, oh, the child is developing because of something innate, right? Your genes are are unfolding. Your brain is sort of changing and your your knowledge of the world is unfolding because of sort of pre-formed genetic, uh, you know, recipe that's being followed. He's also rejecting a kind of Pavlovian empiricism, where the infant is just sitting there and learning from association all the stuff that is happening. Because both of these views, even though one says everything is kind of in the genes, and one says everything is learned, he's rejecting both of them because in both situations, the child is passive. Constructivism is the child is the agent of its own development. The the child has goals and it's going around solving, you know, it's kicking goals, right? It is solving problems and figuring out, it's you as a child, you are developing your own mind in this view. It's called autodidactic. You are self-instructing. So our knowledge comes from, but also the, the reason why the knowledge is this way, is also because the world is this way. We go through a every child goes through the same sequence because we're discovering what the world is like. For example, there are certain relationships between how hard you throw a ball and how far it bounces. That's just true of the world. And so if you are the child and you are kind of figuring out these schemes of perception and action, the reason why every child goes through these sequence in the same order, he thinks this is a completely universal, you cannot skip steps. Even though this is none of this is genetic, it's all the same for every child. Because he thinks this is the nature of what the of what you will get in the world when you are sort of moving around trying to figure it out. So Right, this is the notion of logical necessity. He thinks the sequence, so much like, so imagine trying to learn algebra before you learned arithmetic. It wouldn't really make sense. Right? There's a kind of logical necessity of like a prerequisite. The idea is that you have these sequences. The sequences that you have that every child goes through is because of the logical necessity of discovering one thing before you are capable of discovering the next thing. So, it's sort of an idealist, he sort of views that the world is defined, so that the world is mathematically and logically defined, and the child is, development is a trajectory of discovering that truth. Hm, might be hard to get through all the criticism, but we'll see what we do. Uh So what is the formation semiotic fun? So what's going on? So the idea is that particularly, this is true of symbols, right? You will discover you cannot, he's sort of saying you can't get from if you were doing behaviorism stuff like getting reinforced, just associating, how would you develop mental symbols from reinforcement? He doesn't alone. Or how would you develop mental symbols from genes telling you what to do? He doesn't think that's possible. He thinks you have to develop this yourself. But sex on the screen, but that's basically all that was sort of saying. He's saying, if you wanna get to mental representation, you have to have this constructivist notion, you're constructing your own knowledge. Oh, the slides have stopped moving. Oh, there we go. Right. Now, in the last 10, we'll we'll go into next time, it's fine. The next one is shorter, so we'll sort of bleed over a bit and then start on the next one as well. Um So now we're gonna talk about two people who criticize PJ's. And, and This is one view of development, and there's 3, so, so we're setting up 3 classic theories here. We're gonna, we just mainly did Page, we're gonna talk about Vygotsky, and we're gonna talk about Noam Chomsky's views. And these are three different kinds of theories that are still present now, even if the particulars have changed. So Piaget, his theories are constructivist. Vigotsky is a socio-cultural theorist. And Chomsky is a is a nativist, that he puts a lot more in the genes than Piaget does. Fergotsky puts a, so Piaget talks about the child as teaching themselves knowledge. Fergotsky thinks our knowledge comes from our social. Social group in our culture. Chomsky thinks a lot of our knowledge comes from our genes. So these two different angles on criticizing Paget's approach. Where does knowledge come from? Ourselves, our culture, or our genes are these three approaches to where knowledge can come from. And that kind of covers what the possibilities sort of could be in a way. Or maybe you have a 4th. Let us know. Um So Vygotsky. His view Is that We're just gonna, we're just gonna talk about specifically how he thinks about thought and language. There's too much, you know, we're not, we're never really meant to go too far into Bergotsky. We're talking about thought and language. So, the child in socio cultural theory, when he's his approach. Is that there's children in context, right? You have Page. Page was talking about the child moving around the kitchen, right? He's, she's moving her, she's moving her doll carriage around, she's figuring out how to get it out of the way of the door and how to like pick things up and move them around, while he's sitting there taking down notes and not like doing anything, right? Bogotsky says, This child isn't just walking around the house by themselves. They're interacting with other people. They're interacting with other people, and also the way they're interacting with other people is sort of defined by the culture in which they're being raised. And the child, the child isn't just changing, but the context changes with the child. For example, The parent So, for example, you as a parent will talk differently to your 2 year old than to your 5-year-old. Right, you kind of assume that the 2 year old can understand things differently. You, when you have a 5 year old, they think that they can do more things, and you're probably right, I'm not saying you're making this up, right? You're assuming that the 5-year-old can do different things than the 2-year-old can do or the 3-year-old can do. So, given that your behavior towards the child is changing, to understand child development, you have to look at how he interacts with its context. The whole system develops together. Just isolating the child. The Pergeian sort of isolates the child from its context to understand the child, but Gotsky says it doesn't work. Also, the way parents and children interact differs between cultures. It also passes, this is how the culture is passed on. And also changes the culture. So, PHJ talks about universality in child development. Every child goes through the same traject goes through the same sequence. Forgotsky focuses more on how different cultures are different from each other. And what is internalized in the child is the culture. So Page is saying, when you're, when the, when the, when the child is going out into their journey to discover the logical, mathematical. Uh, nature of the universe, it's going to be, they're going to be figuring out how the world works and able to achieve their goals because this is the way the world really is. Vygotsky is saying, well, what, what the child is internalizing into their minds as they grow is culture. How the culture thinks, how the culture behaves. And this is what, uh, this is what you, this is what develops. Culture provides ways of thinking and tools for thinking. Particularly language, Vygotsky has a big focus on language and how language is critical in showing how cultures think and how language helps children think. Children speak to others and then to themselves and they solve a problem, for example, eventually internalize that speech. Right, so again, So there's a certain amount. Of this That is similar, right? There's a basic observation that, so remember PageJ just said, thinking is overt and then it becomes covert. Vigosky talks about some similar things, such as, for example, you kind of are, a lot of our thinking, he thinks is like an internalized speech. You guys have voices in your head, not in the schizophrenic way, but in the like, I'm thinking something through way, right? Some people don't, right? Much like, you know, some people don't have mental imagery, some people don't have the voice in their head when they're thinking about stuff. So some people are like, other people have voices in their head, cause they did, you know, uh, I have a voice in my head, presumably, and most people do. Right? Vergotsky thinks this is basically like an internalized cultural problem solving system. That we have sort of learned through interaction with other people, that we've internalized into our minds to help us think, help us think about stuff. Alright. So when you're studying later, you might be going like Vgotsky said I was gonna had a voice in my head, and you're probably having a voice in your head when you're thinking that, right? Uh, but you also might see when something's challenging, they might speak out loud again. So maybe you're like planning your essay, you might start mumbling to yourself or something like that, right? Because, uh, you know, when something might be really challenging, you might sort of externalize these processes again. Now back and we'll just, I guess I still have to get you your quiz, we'll get there, don't worry. Um, I'll just tell you the answer if you don't have time. It's just, it's, it's, I think it's, I'm pretty sure it's B. We'll see, we'll get there. All right, so, um, he goes, so. Egocentrism at the core of Vigosky's Critique of Page. We'll, we'll do Chomsky next time and that's fine. So here's a baby. In case you're wondering, Now, according to Piaget, all infants are autistic. In the before, there's a reason why autism is called that, right? It has to do with the kind of associality. The world impinges on the infant, and he has to assimilate what he encounters and accommodate himself. The infant confronted with the world becomes less egocentric. Experience and assimilation increases the opportunity for understanding. That's what PageJ says Vigosky says the infant is not autistic, the infant is inherently social. The infant struggles to engage in the world and has insisted in doing so. By the culture, he appropriates, internalizes cultural objects like language to assist in this in Denver. The infant assisted by cultural structures. It's into what is called the zone of proximal development. So the zone of proximal development is the difference between what a child can do on their own and what a child can do with adult assistance. Right, the idea is that you can do something by yourself, you have a little bit of a hint from an adult and you can do more. The idea is that this will then help bridge you, this scaffolds you into the next ability, right? Rather than, so PHJ is talking about, oh, I, how all of these next levels of, of insights are all kind of self-generated, rather than being adult scaffolded. Vergotsky focuses on how adults scaffold each new cognitive skill in the infant's repertoire. So the social world and then PSA has this stuff where you kids don't really have the ability to take the other people's perspective. We think back on like theory of mind type of stuff you might have heard about, like, oh, kids are incapable of thinking about other people's minds until they're 6 years old. Something like that, according to Page. But Vergazzi goes, the infant. Is social the entire time. Every single thing the infant knows is because it's incorporating other people's minds into its own mind. All of knowledge is inherently socially constructed. He criticizes. Vigosky says Oh, sorry, for those of you, maybe I should do the quiz real quick for those of you who have to go and then I can go back and finish. Oh, where did I? All right, the answer is B. The quiz did not make, make it into this. This is a version of the slides that I thought I had the quiz in it, but it doesn't. Uh, everyone hit B. And you're on canvas. Apologies, it won't happen again. First time. You know, you gotta throw out the first pancake, as they say, right? So, So we'll just conclude with Vigosky's kind of criticism. He says, Page hides behind this wall of facts, right? So think about how what we, what we spent 30 minutes talking about. Page is like describing every motion the infant does for 6 months, right? It's like all these motions, all these different things, but you're going, this doesn't really explain where symbols come from. He's kind of, he's sort of describing in such detail that. You kind of think you're going to lead to an end point where you have symbols in your mind, but really you don't. And Vigosky goes, why is he making this problem so much harder for himself? Symbols are provided to you by the culture. Symbols are created in cult language is cultural, symbols in the world, paintings, right? The fish bumper sticker means Jesus, that's cultural, right? All of these things are culturally constructed. Why is Page making every infant have to reinvent the wheel? Right? You can learn from your culture. So next time we'll pick it up with the debate between Jean-Piaget and Noam Chomsky. And we will actually have election engagement quiz on those slides. Where's it, thank you, yeah, thank you, it's somewhere. It's right, the answer.SPEAKER 0Oh Hi. Hi, how's it going? Good thanks. quick question about the assessment. Oh, I want you to me. What are you talking about the essays?SPEAKER 1So I, uh, do you mind emailing me or, yeah,SPEAKER 0yeah, yeah, yeah, because I, I have another meeting inSPEAKER 1a couple of minutes, but I'm happy if it's very, if it takes like a minute. Oh hold on, let me, um, let me think aboutSPEAKER 0it, yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry, um, hold on, I've gotSPEAKER 1a Sorry about this.SPEAKER 0All finished.SPEAKER 1Yeah, wait, I, I gotta make sure I actually signed out. Hold on. Yes, yeah, sorry about that. They sent me an email.SPEAKER 3Hey everyone, just wanted to do a quick lecture announcement. Um, just wanted to ask if anyone here thinks student student housing is affordable to raise their hands. No-one. Um, OK, another question, do you think your tuition fees should go towards paying transphobes or Israeli soldiers to come speak on campus? No. Um, you can do something about all of these things by voting queer agenda for SRC next Tuesday to Thursday, and by getting involved in the Queer Action Collective to fight for public housing on campus and against our fees being used for bigotry. Um, my name is Lauren, some of you may know me from class, and my friend Sarah will also be handing out leaflets, um, and feel free to chat about how we actually plan on implementing these things, um, and about our campaign. Thank you very much.SPEAKER 0I I Oh Is thereSPEAKER 0Hey, good, how's it going?SPEAKER 1Hi everyone, we're 5 past, so. Apologies for being a little uh rushed last time. This first sort of lecture in a bit was previously 2 lectures, tried to cut down to 1, didn't quite get there, and we were starting late. So, we'll do the final bit, but don't worry, it'll all work out in the end where you will not have to stay long in the last lecture of the year. All right, so. Last time we talked about Page, his constructivist account of knowledge, right, and the idea was that the infant constructs their own cognitive development. And goes from a birth without any knowledge to by 2 years of age developing the semiotic function, the ability to sort of think symbolically. Right, we then talked about Vergotsky's criticism of that, where Vergotsky was saying. That the the framework of Piaget is misguided. Piaget is talking about children. Inventing every child in the world, coming up with the idea of symbols all by themselves. Rather, society culture provides symbols for the child, and the child has to sort of just sort of internalize the culture of what's around them. Chomsky has a different critique where he is focusing on the idea that this isn't innate. Right? So, right, so PageJ had two core assumptions. There is no innate knowledge and the child constructs their own cognition. Right, that second one, the child constructs their own cognition, is the, the angle that Vergotsky criticized. Vergotsky said no, the, the cognition is co-constructed with the people around the child. And Chomsky's talking is focusing on that first assumption that the child starts with no innate knowledge. He's gonna sort of argue for innate knowledge. So, and a little more old-time writing quotation, comments last year's student study review was like we hated it when he read quotes out loud. So I've cut that down quite a lot, but a little bit left. So In his interesting remarks on the psycho, you were wondering, there was a debate. So what happened is that Piaget and Chomsky had a debate and they wrote back and forth and talked to each other. Right? And the previous, some of the previous stuff I quoted was Page and now this is Chomsky's reply. In his interesting remarks on the psychogenesis of knowledge and its epistological significance, Jean Piaget formulates three general points of view as to how knowledge is acquired. Empiricism, which is sort of like a simple, you know, it's something similar to what like the behaviorists might have done, where everything is sort of learned by association, pre-formation, which is a nativism, right? The idea is that knowledge is sort of in the child before the child is born in its own constructivism. Which is the child is sort of doing the development, is doing the construction of their own cognition. He correctly characterizes my view in his terms as a variety of innateism. Specifically, investigation of human language has led me to believe that genetically determined language faculty, one component of the human mind, specified a certain class of humanly accessible grammars. We'll talk, we'll, so we're gonna talk a little bit about Trump today and we're gonna talk, give, give her much more time when we get to language development, uh, in a few weeks, but we're gonna start with a little preview, uh, because it's relevant to PSA and we'll loop back around. My guess would be that, as in the case of grammars, a fixed genetically determined system of some sort narrowly constrains the forms that they can assume. I would also speculate that other cognitive structures developed by humans might properly be analyzed along similar lines. So Against this conception, Piaget offers two basic arguments. The mutations specific to humans that might have given rise to the postulate innate structures are biologically inexplicable. So Chomsky's saying language, Chomsky's saying, well, I'm not talking about any other part of cognition, my focus is language. And language has an innate basis. Human, human syntax is innately constrained by our genes in some manner, such that we only language isn't every possible way that a language could logically be. Languages. Are only a certain way, and the fact that languages are only a certain way suggests an innate constraint on the form of languages. Right? And also, since language, all the symb all the symbolic stuff is about language, language is a symbolic. System, so if language is innate, then the semiotic function is innate. Right, so Page says, well, these mutations are biologically inexplicable. Further, what can be explained in the assumption of fixed and structures can be explained as well as the necessary result of constructions of sensory motor intelligence. Remember last time I talked about the necessary, as in when Page is talking about the, the sequence, right, of sensory motor intelligence, right? You go from reflexes, modifying those reflexes, primary circular reactions, secondary circular reactions, all that stuff I was talking about, right? He's saying, Each one of those new insights is a logically, necessarily follows the previous one. So if all children around the world follow a universal pattern of development, this isn't because it reflects genetically unfolding, uh, genetically unfolding sequence. It reflects just what happens when you start, when you have, when you have no knowledge and you try to figure out the world. Right? That was PJ's argument. And this is, and this is why he says, well, there's no need, right? There's no need to postulate innate things, right? PJ is like, you don't have to have innateness to explain the pattern, and We don't know anything about how genes do any of this stuff. Now This is now at this time. We're gonna not spend much time with that first bit, but Chomsky was basically like, I don't know, we don't know how the genes did this yet, but there's no reason to think we won't ever know that. It's weird to say that there's no way we could ever figure this out. So that's the way he dismisses that point. The second point. So, so basically are saying that's true of anything, you know, this, this was when this was like, I think this debate happened in the 70s. Right? And it was the 70s, and they were like, it's the 70s, we don't know anything about how genes work yet. Give us 50 more years, right? So, Um And so, for example, we don't know how the eye evolved, but that doesn't mean, you know, we don't, we don't, we think that eyes are like constructed from experience. Right? So he's basically saying this isn't a very good argument. That's fine. Now. The second one is more, is more important, about do you need innate structures to explain the developmental pattern. And PSJ says no, everything comes out of this origin of, of infant exploring around the world, eventually discovers everything. Now, So first, Chomsky says language development unfolds in a regular sequence just as any other maturing aspect of the child. Sure. And Much like all of our organs develop, so Chomsky's like calling language like a mental organ. So he's like, all of our organs develop with some genetic sequence. So I'll, I'll basically, I'll just skip right to the evidence of why he thinks this doesn't work. He starts saying, he basically says, If you look at language, if you take seriously what language is like, you just can't get there through sensory motor explanation. You have to posit innate structures when you analyze language in detail, saying Piaget's attempt at describing the sequence of, you know, primary circular reactions, means, ends analysis, and then suddenly somehow you have language, it just doesn't work. Let's take a look at some examples. So Now, here's a a quote from another quote about someone asking Chomsky about being taught grammar in school. Right, cos we all might remember, I don't know, maybe they don't do this anymore, but there was a time when people would teach you rules of grammar in school, like don't finish your sentence with a preposition and don't say to who, say to whom, and all these types of things, right? Now Point that Chomsky is saying that this is all just very superficial, uh, in comparison to how much grammar you already know by the time you're in school. So for example, you're, no one, no one ever tells you in school, oh, you're supposed to put adjectives before the noun, right? So you say things like the red car, right? Red becomes a four car. Other languages say things like the car red, right? But they would use the words of that language, right? No one ever walks into school doing that the wrong way. They've already figured that out. Right? They're all, the stuff that school teaches you are kind of formal rules of like style, like this is what kind of like formal English is, which is different than like vernacular that you might use with your friends. If you wanna sort of write, now no one does this anymore cause everyone just texts each other emojis, but like when people cared about writing long sentences, you would sort of be taught about how to, you know, the formal rules for doing that. Right, so Trump would say, it is precisely what seems self-evident, right? Like the fact that some, that you just learn English and you say the car, the red car, not the car red. That's most likely part of our hereditary baggage. Some of the, for example, some of the oddities of English pronoun behavior can illustrate what I mean. Take the sentence, John believes he is intelligent. OK, we all know that he can refer to either John or to someone else, right? John believes he's intelligent, could mean John's believes John's intelligent, or could mean John believes Bob is intelligent. Right, However, if you say Jim believes him to be John believes him to be intelligent. Him can't refer to John, right? John, John believes him to be intelligent, means Bob, or someone else. Now, at no point did anyone sit you down and corrected your, your interpretation of pronouns in such a way. And sorry, the people who are second language speakers of, so a lot, a lot of examples when we get to language later and linguistics. If you're not a native speaker in English, you may be like, I don't see this at all, but a lot, cause a lot of these examples you kind of, you often have to be a native speaker of to kind of get the strong intuition. Alright, so, but now did anyone teach us this peculiarity of English pronouns that when we were children? Hard to even know. Imagine a training procedure that would convey such information to a person. Nevertheless, everybody knows it, knows without experience, without training at quite an early age. Now, how exact the proof for that is questionable, we'll get to that later. But there are any number of examples that show that we humans have explicit and highly articulate linguistic knowledge that simply has no basis in linguistic experience. So basically, what Chomsky is saying is if you actually, now, this level of detail of language use was never part of Page's analysis. When Page is like, you kind of go from, you know, exploring to sort of understanding symbols, and now you get language, he's This is not talking about things like how, what, how do you define when pronouns and get different types of antecedents, right? That we all kind of know from speaking a language, we all kind of have implicit knowledge of how pronouns can refer to antecedents that no one's ever taught us and all of that stuff. If you were gonna try to write down the rules that tells you what context different pronouns are allowed to take different reference, if you write out all those rules, that type of thing a syntactician does. And he's Chomsky's saying all of that stuff is the type of stuff that's in our innate endowment of language. No one teaches us that. It's just part of our communication system. So here's some more examples. Sam is waiting for Fred, can be asked, who is Sam waiting for, right? The you, if you don't know, right, let's say you don't know Sam is waiting for Fred, so you might take the, the Fred and put who at the beginning of your sentence. Susan asked, but if you said Susan asked why Sam was waiting for Fred, it cannot be asked as who did Susan ask why Sam was waiting for? See, that's not, if you're an English speaker, that's just like not a good sentence, like, that's not a sentence that anyone would possibly say. No one ever makes that error, that's not the kind of error like, oh, not to who, but to whom. This isn't the kind of error that anyone would ever have to correct you on, because no one would ever say a sentence like that. Right? And so Chomsky's saying there's all kinds of things none of us ever say because we have innate constraints on how our language works. And there's no way that you could have learned this from just, if you're talking about an infant walking around figuring stuff out, it's not gonna get there. So that's, that's the nature of his argument, and we're gonna get, we're gonna spend a whole kind of lecture on it. When we get to language development, but hopefully this gives you the flavor of the kinds of things he's saying, because he's just sort of arguing against this notion of innate knowledge. Right, so summing up the, the last time in this first bit today, and then we'll get on to today's primary topic. Page goes to great lengths to describe the sensory motor period to explain how the child born with only reflexes and mechanisms of knowledge construction constructs symbolic mental representation. The sensory motor period is critical to Piaget because his theory rejects innate symbolic knowledge, and so it needs such an explanation. Vygotsky says, why go to such lengths? Symbols are provided by the culture. The child does not need to construct them. This is why PJ's explanation is inadequate. Chomsky says. Why reject the idea of innate knowledge of symbolic structure? One, there's no, this idea that PHA starts with saying we must reject it. He's like, why? What are you talking about? Right? There's no, and also, there is no way to explain human knowledge of language, a form of symbolic representation, without positing innate preformation of some kind. Construction, if, if, if the candidates are, you can learn this by sensory motor exploration, or there's innate knowledge, he's saying, well, there's innate knowledge because you can't learn it from sensory motor explanation. Alright, so we're going to this first little bit. Talking about, all right, yeah, so, talking about these three theories, and the, the Pian type theory, the Vygotsky type theory, and the Chomsky type theory, you're gonna see throughout the rest of the time, there's variations in the specifics, but these are kind of like the three kinds of theories in development. Socio-cultural theories, Vergotsky, sort of constructivist theories, Piaget and nativist theories, Chomsky. But those are the three kind of kinds of theories that we'll kind of see. Throughout the rest of the time.