All right, so now we move on to Next bit. Take a sec. As I Open the next slides. So Where's the little full screen button? Oh, there we go. So, when Page was developing these things, and Margotsky as well, they didn't really have the best, most systematic research methods. Page, as we were sort of saying, was just kind of observing his own kids and developing little tests with them. So you saw in the, in the um. You saw some examples of the, like, todd, you know, preschool age tests that he gave in the, in the in the tutorial, the conservation task, right? But he also did little things with, with infants. We just kind of like hit it off, you guys have all heard the object permanence, we're gonna be talking about that shortly, right? He was doing little methods like, I'm gonna hide this object and see if the infant, like, tries to find it. And if they don't, it's a sign that they don't know that it's there. Right, those are the kinds of methods Page was using. Now Um, however, these aren't necessarily the methods that infant researchers use. They don't just kind of hide stuff from infants and be like, what's the infant gonna do? They try to sort of do some other kind of systematic measurement. We might try to quantify. So, so before we get into the content of the research, we're gonna talk about how infant research works. Cause once we're kind of old past infancy, developmental research is much easier to understand. Because the. You know, the kids can like talk to you, right? Once you're like, once you're a couple of years old, you can be like, which one of these two things do you like? And the kid can point, right? When you're dealing with an infant, you can't just be like, hey, which of these two things do you like? He had to figure something out. Right, so the challenge of studying infants, they cannot talk, they cannot follow instructions, they have short attention span. They have limited behavior repertoire. They only do a couple of things. They develop very rapidly, and so you might have to be changed, you know, something that works for you to study 4 month olds may not work for you to study 6 month olds. Right, so how do you sort of figure out what's going on with infants? Now, there is. A bunch of different experimental methods, behavioral tasks, such as sucking. So for example, with newborn infants, you can give them like a pacifier. Type thing, and that's, that can measure their rate of sucking, and their rate of sucking is actually a reflection of how interested they are in the stimulus being exposed to them. Right, so, you can look at, they can, they can turn it, right? So what can they do? They can suck on things, they can turn their heads, they can kind of reach for stuff, and they can like look at stuff. That's basically what infants can do in the experimental paradigm. They can crawl around a bit, but you only would have that be the measure if you are interested in crawling. Right, you can look at physiologically, you can look at their heart rate, you can measure their brains. Etc. but that's also, that's about, and there's a lot, there's plenty of that stuff, but for us, we're going to focus on looking time. This is the primary measure with infants is how long they look at something. Because how long they look at something reveals a lot about how they're processing it. But to do this, but, but again, to figure out what the looking at something means, you have to kind of have these convoluted experimental designs where you're comparing different tightly controlled conditions to each other to see what slight differences in looking time there are, rather than just being like, hey kid, what do you think? And they can tell you. So the habituation paradigm. Is the kind of primary thing that we'll be talking about. Now They, they're now with eye trackers and things like this, there's more sophisticated ways of doing it, but the basic way this works for most of the time that people have done this kind of research, is you have an infant. You sit them on Their mother's lap in a dark room. The here the mother has headphones on, so they aren't exposed to the stimulus to sort of minimize, sort of to minimize the amount that they might direct the infant's attention. You then have something on the screen, there will be a noise and an image. Depending on the study, the infant is oriented towards the screen. The way this used to look, work when you, before you had automatic gaze trackers, when I was in grad school 20 years ago, what would happen was, is that you would have someone else sitting in another room, you'd be watching this through a camera, and you would hold down a button on the keyboard while the infant was staring at the stimulus of interest. Right, and then if they looked away, you would pick your finger off the keyboard to signify they have stopped looking at it, and it recorded how long the infant spent looking at it. Then when it looks away, you have to get it to reorient towards the screen. And then you would show it another, and then they would have an attention getter, and this would be a, like a dinging sound with like a swirling, like a swirling, you know, red star with a dinging sound, and I remember going, whoa, would look back at the screen and then you'd flip back to the stimulus of interest, you'd go back to holding uh the keyboard down as I was, as it was looking, and then it would get bored and look away again. And you're sort of, you sort of kept track, and then you had a series of trials that you just recorded how long the infant was looking at the stimulus of interest. And this is the general kind of thing you get. Where at first, they think it's interesting, it is new. Right, so you have, you know, let's say you're interested, you know, you're showing it a picture of a cat, and goes, oh cool, it's a cat, and it's looking at it for a while. Then it looks away. You get its oriented back, it looks at a cat. It looks a bit less, you look away, etc. and then it gets to a point where. It's like, oh, it's that cat again, it just looks away kind of right away. Right, so you've gotten its attention again with the attention getting stimulus. And then it looks away. Um Again, and then what happened, the way these studies work is you define ahead of time to end the habituation phase by something like, OK, the 1st 3 trials have X number of seconds and them on average. Then when they have 3 consecutive trials that their looking time falls below 50% of the 1st 3 trials, we're gonna call that child habituated to the stimulus. Right, so you sort of go from we're establishing their baseline level, every individual infant might have a baseline level of interest in the stimulus that you're showing them, the cat. And then you go, OK, they have now dropped to 50% below baseline. We're going to call that. Habituated, also known as bored. Then you start the test phase. Where you might reintroduce the familiar stimulus, they will continue to be bored by it, and now you show them. A dog, and they go, oh wow, that's not that cat, it's a dog now. And now they're looking at it for a lot longer, kind of like they started with the cat. Right? And so this novel, this novel minus familiar is what's called the novelty preference. Right? So after habituating, where they are bored of what you've been showing them. They will then show a novelty preference to new stuff. This is the basic logic of how all these experiments work. Now, but if you're an experimentalist, one of the things you're interested in is what counts as novel. Right? What counts as novel is what matters, because if two things, let's say, are very similar to each other. But technically different, do they think that's novel? Right, so let's say it's, let's say it's, you know, we'll get, we'll show you more, but let's say if you've shown them one cat the whole time. OK, they might think a dog is novel, but how about a different cat? Are they bored of all cats or just that one cat? And what does that mean about its understanding of the category cat as a general category rather than just a specific cat? So those are the types of questions that have been intriguing infant researchers for decades. So we'll start by looking at some examples of basic perceptuals. So how might you start to use this? Let's say you're interested in newborn vision. How clear can newborn, can, like, let's say you're a, you know, how much perceptual precision does an infant, a very young infant have? OK, so these are perceptual discrimination trials. So let's say. You have, you habituate to that first one. Right, so you habituate to these sort of black and white stripes, and then at test, you show a gray one. Alright. If they show a novelty preference to the gray one, you go, oh, they could see the black and white stripes. If you have very low precision in your vision, the black and white stripes, that whole thing will just look gray to you. Right, so if it just looks gray to you, then you show them a gray picture, they're just like, I'm bored still, that's just another gray picture, you've already shown me that. Alright. Now, shortly after birth. The infants will, if they were habituated to the thick gray bars, sorry, sorry, the thick black and white bars, they will then show a novelty preference to the gray. But if you show them the really thin ones, they won't show a novelty preference to the gray. So that gives you evidence that the infant has, you know, where is their perceptual discrimination ability? Right, so the infant does not have such so much precision that that bottom one, I'm assuming that everyone here can see that those are black, those are white and black bars, and you have more acuity visual acuity than a newborn infant. Right, so You will, so the newborn infant goes, that things can't see at that level of precision. All right, so this is a very simple perceptual discrimination test. Right, and if you just showed them two, these two things at once, and was, and just waited for them to like wave around at it, you wouldn't be able to interpret it. But by having this habituation procedure, knowing that you should get a novelty preference, you can then go, oh, they can see that, they can't see that. Now Within 5 minutes of explaining to you how habituation works, I'm gonna explain that it's actually more complicated than that. Um So the assumption Of this is you have a this is not linear, but this is a monotonic function. Right? This is the monotonic function. Of Uh, you know, of looking of, of sort of a novelty preference, right? So there, the more, basically here, the more familiar something is, the less they want to look at it, right? From trial one, right? That you look at the most, in this idealized version of habituation, they start out with the most interest they'll ever have, and then they just get less and less interested over time. However, there's some people start to realize that it's not actually monotonic. That there was a brief period after initial exposure where you actually get a familiar, a familiarity preference. We actually prefer to look at something that you've seen before. Where you're kind of like, oh, it's a cat, oh, maybe there's something going on with this cat. Maybe I should look at it slightly longer. There's something kind of cool about it. Right, so that's this. So after initial exposure, you might actually look longer before you get bored of it. So the idea is like, uh, you see it, you're like, oh, that's a new thing, and then you go, oh, this is kind of cool, what, what, and then you go, oh no, I get it, and then you start being bored of it. And you go, I'm done, I'm, I'm not gonna look at it anymore. This is for infants. So this is a, this is a model of infant looking time that incorporates a non-mono, and, you know, where at first you have an increasing familiarity preference. So the idea is the basic idea is like infants are trying to make sense of what they're seeing. Now, we don't want to anthropomorphize too much with infants, right? But the idea is that they're trying to make sense of what they're seeing. So at first, they're gonna wanna look at something that's familiar until they kind of get it. And then they'll start getting bored of it. Right, this is the I'm trying to get it phase, and this is I'm getting bored of it phase. Now, part of this, part of the reasons for this is that if you're tracking this, if, so what might make it take longer to go through this, I'm trying to get it phase. If the stimuli is more complex, that might, you might stay longer in the I'm trying to figure it out phase, and if you're younger. So, you know, if you're a 3 month old infant, it may take you longer to figure out what's going on than a 7 month old infant. Right? And often when you have these studies, you compare 4 month olds to 6 month olds to 8 month olds because in the same, in the same sort of exact same matched visual task, there can be drastic differences a couple of months later in terms of what they're able to sort of figure out. And we'll go through examples over the, over the next couple of weeks. Um, So you kind of have, you know, so if you're younger, and it's more complicated, it takes you longer to get over this familiarization preference before you get into the habituation phase. So, so the definite, so. In terms of these methods. You kind of stop using these methods. Once, uh, you know, probably around, around 15 months, 18 months, you would probably, cause once the kid can talk and point and follow instructions, there's no real reason to do this. You could still call, and, you know, so we're kind of meaning infancy to be this phase where like, They, this is all they can do. Once they can do more stuff, you wouldn't really use these methods. Yeah, say that um um Yeah, So sorry, so yes, yeah, no, good point. So, so, so to discover this, you couldn't really do the full habituation method. You would have to sort of expose them to different amounts of time. So let's say, so, OK, yeah, so let's say, right. So, in habitu in an habituation method, so there's also a distinction between when you're doing an habituation method versus a familiarization method. Habituation method is defined by an individual infant's own baseline, and you go, I start out here and I get to at least 50% less there, but every infant then gets different exposure, right? So every infant gets some infants need 6 trials to go from, you know, let's say some infants start at 20 seconds average looking time, and then 10 trials later, they're at 8 seconds average and so they're habituated. Another infant starts out with only 8 seconds of looking time and maybe takes 4 trials to get to 4 seconds of looking time, right? So there you're not controlling for the different amounts of exposure that different infants are getting. Another method which trades off against this is familiarization methods, where you're, where you're showing the, you're exposing every infant to the exact same amount of stimuli. So you say, every infant is gonna get 20 trials of 20 seconds of exposure. So there you're controlling for, um, you know, total, but then you don't know if someone has fully habituated or not, potentially. I mean, you could, you could track it, but yourself, but the, the, the, the, the test method itself is not contingent on the infants before, right? You're not doing the thing where you're, where you're, oh, they looked away, we're gonna get to the next trial. It's like, this thing's just on for 20 seconds, looking at it or not. Right, so you have to actually trade off between, do I wanna control for the amount of exposure or what I wanna control for like the individual having been habituated. So if you do familiarizations methods. And you're, you're controlling for the amount of exposure, then you can be familiar versus novel, and you can see where, so early on, oh, we only showed them for 3 trials, they actually prefer the novel to the, the sorry. After only showing this, these kids 3 trials of it rather than 10 trials of it, they actually prefer the familiar to the novel. After 10 trials, they now prefer the novel to the familiar. So if you, sorry, if you have that type of method, you can sort of map this out a bit better. Does that make? Sense? And the and so there's a kind of problem because some researchers really hate familiar, thinks familiarization methods are terrible, terrible because you never know what state the infant is in at test, right? They say you have to do habituation because that way you know the infant is in a state where they will have a novelty preference. If you haven't habituated them, they might show a familiarity preference at test and then you, and you don't know which direction your prediction should go in. So, some people, but other people just use familiarization all the time, and like, they're like, this is fine. So, it's a weird. Just kind of methods preference in the literature, and it's kind of like, who were your reviewers when you submitted this journal article? Do they care about it one way or the other, um, which isn't like great from a kind of like, I'm gonna tell you the one truth as your instructor, right? But it's, um, yeah, so there are these, so I was taught by someone who hates familiarization and loves habituation, and Uh, there's also, and some people think familiarization is great, and they think needing to do this habituation stuff is like overblown. Uh, but yeah, but that's at least how you, that's at least how you get this graph is by kind of using familiarization methods. And we talk about infant stuff, some of these, and some of the differences in interpretation of people's findings are based on this, whether or not they use a familiarization method or habituation method. And again, once you're not an infant, none of this stuff, you can just like talk to kids. So all of this is like the struggle of infant research. No, well, if you do a bit, you're not gonna get familiarization preferences to fully hab. That's the sort of point. So this would be like happening before they become habituated. You're, so like if the, the, the argument, the argument for habituation methods is to make sure they're in this state. I'm pointing at the screen, that doesn't help you, is to make sure they're in that state when you get them at test. Cause they go, well, if you use familiarization methods, they may be in this state, and then we don't know what to predict. You could still argue that, well, if you're looking at discrimination, a familiarity preference or a novelty preference is just as good from the sense of can they discriminate between these two things? And so maybe who cares? But it also from a statistical standpoint, if you're kind of allowed to find either direction, it kind of increases your chances of false positives. For example, an infant research is. That no one's done the replication crisis with infancy because it's hard to do infant research. It's not been done as much, but I think a lot of old findings would. Fall prey to the replication crisis that a lot of other fields have. It's just like, it's really hard to get infants to come into your lab, so then you're like, I'm gonna waste these infants on just showing that some other study isn't real. I mean, anyway, the people have started to deal with that, where we have these many babies collaborations where labs across the world are using the same procedures now to deal with that, but a lot of these old findings. Anyway, we'll, we'll, we'll take with a little grain of salt. Yeah, so I don't know if that was more, just more confusing. Um So, all right, so now, so the next bit I'm gonna tell you about is this procedure called generalization habituate, where, what I started out with just like this line grading, repeating, like one stimulus repeating over and over again, right? And then you're like, it changed and can they tell the difference? However, you could also vary the stimuli in the habituation procedure. It doesn't have to literally be the same picture every single time. So I, I mentioned like cat, you know, are they, are they habituating to that cat, or are they habituating to cats generally? Right? So, Cohen and Strauss, 1979. This looked at Infants habituating two faces. All right, it's our first. One, these are just little line draw, these are like little pictures of faces. Also, some of these old studies, the graphs and the stimuli don't look very impressive because it was, it was a while ago, people wouldn't have cool computer graphics to create their stimuli. So, you just had to like draw. So so we have to habituate. So let's say one condition is there's a picture of a face. It's just like a a picture of a face at one angle. So let's just say it's like me looking over to the right, and then they just see my face looking to the right or your left or whatever, over and over and over, every trial is that. Another condition Is they habituate to a single face and multiple orientations. So it's like me looking over to the right, then it's me looking center and like me looking over to the left. So every trial is my face, but it's at a different angle. Condition 3, this is, no, this is always between subjects. Infant research, right? With this type of habituation conditions, you're always doing it between subjects. You're not doing like one habituation and you're sending them back in for the next one. Now it's multiple faces at multiple orientations. So it's like me looking over here, some other guy looking over there, a third guy looking over there. Now, now we're gonna look at some of these old graphs. Now Here they have, they habituate everyone, and they had 3 test trials. Now, first, I'm gonna break down this graph for you. Now you might notice that the Y axis says log fixation time. Now, across different studies, you'll just see a fixation time or you'll see a log transform fixation time. It doesn't, so because fixation times are, uh, you know, positively skewed, right? You can't have uh less than zero fixation times, but you can keep on looking for a very long time. Right? They're often not normally distributed and sometimes people would do a logarithmic transform on their fixation fixation time data to make it more of a normal distribution. So, don't worry about that. I'm explaining why the Y axis says that. Everything about, all we really care here is the relative difference. And so, you know, if one thing is longer than the other thing, that'd be true if they didn't do the logarithmic transform of the data. So it's just like longer fixation times, shorter fixation times is what we care about. So P3 Don't worry, I mean, so a lot of these also will have these like little numbers and like, you know, they don't have full words for their. Axis, I apologize, these don't have error bars, that convention wasn't really around yet, right? They just, so, We're gonna have to just talk through it. So this P3 is a familiar face at a familiar orientation. This is something they've already seen across conditions, right? Condition 12, and 3. Condition 11 face, one orientation. Condition 21 face, multiple orientations. Condition 3, multiple faces, multiple orientations. Alright, so as you'll notice, at least the first two conditions. This is lower than the other bars. It's familiar. Right? And they, it's, it's familiar. And they're not, and they're bored. The second bar, this is a familiar face but at a novel orientation. Looking in condition one, they show a big novelty preference. Right? They're like, it's that same guy again, but now he's looking someplace else, that's so cool. Right, so, infants, you know, they don't have, it doesn't have to be that exciting for them to show a novelty preference. Right. Well, these are infants before they've all become addicted to their phones. Obviously, I don't know if that's true with infants, but anyway, so, yeah, um, so it doesn't take that much, right? Second condition. They are not interested. Right? It's that, even though it's a new orientation. It is a familiar face, and they habituated to this face at a bunch of different orientations. So even though technically this is a novel stimulus, they're not treating it as a novel stimulus. See, it's the same basic height as the familiar face. That's what this is called generalization of habituation, because they generalize their habituation to this novel stimulus. They are treating the novel stimulus as a familiar stimulus because it fits the pattern of what they habituated to. The last one is a novel face at a novel orientation. Condition 1 and condition 2 both show a novelty preference to this image. Right, Condition one is like an even new face, but condition 2 is like, oh, finally, a different face. Right, it got bored of, no matter how many times I turned my face around, it was bored at that point. But we notice with condition 3, they have no preference across any of these faces. They didn't do this, but presumably, if you show them a picture of a dog, they would show a novelty preference. In condition 3. But at this point, all the kind of images of faces, regardless of it being a new face at a new orient at whatever orientation, as long as it kind of matched the overall pattern of the stimulus in condition 3, they were uninterested in this, because they kind of got a whole bunch of different faces and a bunch of different orientations. So again, so, so basically, the breadth of the variation in the habituation stimuli leads to further generalization in test phase. Right, the when the infants are habituating, they're habituating to the pattern to what's common in the habituation stimulus, not just the individual stimuli. All right, so just to, to sort of summarize that. They habituate to one face. In one orientation, they discriminate novel from familiar. In terms of if it's a new face, if it's a new orientation, it's novel. Second one, habituate the same face in multiple orientations. They Do not dishabituate, right? So, so, so if they. The terminology is a bunch of jargon in infant research, and it's not my fault. So, um. Showing a novelty preference is dishabituating, right? You habituate and then you dishabituate when something new happens. All right. So. They, and here they don't dishabituate, that is, they stay habituated to the familiar face and the novel orientation, but, but they do dishabituate to the novel face. Here they do not dishabituate to anything. In condition 3. So they, the point is they track the pattern of the stimuli, not just individual stimuli, and they generalize their habituation based on that pattern. Younger infants I, I didn't show these data, but they also did this with. With infants younger than 30 weeks. And they don't they. Sort of show novelty preferences to everything, kind of like condition one, because that, those infants were too young to learn the categories, to learn the pattern. So when you get this generalization pattern, it shows they are capable of finding that abstraction. This is all faces. And so what you'll see when we're testing particular hypotheses about what infants can and cannot learn. You're looking at a situation where it's all about when are they kind of generalizing their habituation and when are they. Showing a novelty preference, and that will tell you if they were capable of learning what you put in the stimuli. So they all habituated. That every one of these infants habituated during the habituation phase, dishabituating or not is about the test phase. They stayed habituated. Yeah, Like, like when someone, if you want to tell people to make a less working memory load intensive group of words, you can take it up with, well, Cohen's retired, so you can't take it up with him, but. Yeah, yeah, you could say stay habituated. That's probably an easier way to think about it. Generalize their habituation. All right, so what are the learning outcomes for this part, the principles of habituation. Right, so when first learning about a stimulus, infants may show a familiarity preference. The more complex the stimulus, the longer the familiarity preference may persist. After infants have fully processed the stimulus and habituate, they will develop a novelty preference or show one. Infants do not just habituate to the specifics of individual stimuli, they habituate to the pattern of the stimuli and generalize their habituation to the new stimuli that fit the pattern. This allows tests of whether infants are capable of learning particular patterns, not just whether they can discriminate between individual stimuli. All right. So we can take our 5 minute break. And then we'll go on to using these methods to talk about nativism and constructivism in infant research. And I'll do the quiz. Oh yeah, and we'll do the quiz in the 2nd half. Hello.SPEAKER 3Quick question about this, correct, um, the more complex theSPEAKER 4stimulus. familiarity But I thought they didn't have to there either. I thought they were.SPEAKER 3Yeah, in the start, but if you like, did, yeah, an overall thing, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.SPEAKER 0Hi, you heard, um, I would not answer the questionSPEAKER 2by email just about the assignment, um, which answered my question like am I one.SPEAKER 3Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm the person I'm happy.SPEAKER 2I opening a massive, is there research that's gonna be in this area?SPEAKER 3I into a result.SPEAKER 2And so I think the question is very interesting, andSPEAKER 1there certainly is research on social cohesion. I am unaware.SPEAKER 0Of how much people have taken this angle on it. So what I recommend doing is just start a literature,SPEAKER 1right? Just start with a Google Scholar and start seeing ifSPEAKER 0you can find some papers that relate these things together.SPEAKER 3And if you can't really find any, it's gonna beSPEAKER 0really hard for you to write this stuff.SPEAKER 2Is it probable that if I find one of those, I'll find there's, there's one neat construct which has actually got something behind it and which links well to an outside. And I'm probably gonna do, right, so, so, so youSPEAKER 1could, so you could look, so I could imagine some world where you're kind of like, hey, here's an, you might have to link things like on the one hand, here's some stuff where, um. Uh, like, like, here's some things that we know relate to social cohesion. And here's some other stuff that relates to the development of this stuff. Right, so maybe you can link those two things together somehow, yes, right now. So for example, if you're, you know, what if it's, I don't know, some personality trait that makes people disagree with each other, I don't know, you know, or whateverSPEAKER 2your theory, yeah, right, right, yeah, so, so you could,SPEAKER 1I mean, a lot of the, you know, social coherence and stuff has to do with so. You know, so for example, there is evidence suggesting that increased executive function is good at inhibiting implicit bias.SPEAKER 0Let's say you lie. Rather than someone being overtly racist, or implicit bias, executiveSPEAKER 1function ability could sort of help inhibit that.SPEAKER 0And then, you know, now of course some people areSPEAKER 1just overtly racist, and so I, you know, so it may, it may be maybe less relevant, but you could imagine it's certainly the case. There's millions of studies on, I don't know, but like on how poverty affects executive function, OK, right?SPEAKER 0So it's cer, so it's certainly the case that like.SPEAKER 1Um, You know, so, so there's, so it's like, so it's only like, so then you could look at that. But then is that, but how much is that going to feed into.SPEAKER 0The problem is, the problem is, is connecting these dots.SPEAKER 1I, I think it's a great, so true.SPEAKER 0I think it's a very interesting topic, but it maySPEAKER 3be difficult for you to connect all the dots.SPEAKER 0But it's worth doing some literature searches and seeing ifSPEAKER 1you can do it.SPEAKER 2I'm expected to solve the world in my 25,000 words you can make something.SPEAKER 1Yeah, but if you could, if you can make the connections and make it clear about like what this, how much of the problem if you can make like if you're just kind of say, hey, there's no research on it, so I don't think it'll solve this problem, be like, I don't, you know, I mean, you know, that's.SPEAKER 3Right, because you're kind of like, hey, here are someSPEAKER 1pieces that are very suggestive in the selection.SPEAKER 2Then you, I am I go down this path it's like people.SPEAKER 1Right, that's not, yeah, I wouldn't necessarily, on certain thingsSPEAKER 2like, but you can focus on inequality. You can focus on inequality rather than, uh, yeah, butSPEAKER 1I guess it's, yeah, I don't know, I guess it'd be hard, right?SPEAKER 0I suppose it'd be hard to do if you're just having a lot of, hey, crime, yeah, right.SPEAKER 1You don't wanna make it seem like you're blaming theSPEAKER 3poor.SPEAKER 2Yeah, I just wanna think something a bit more maybe in sociology realm which is like. Social cohesion, maybe a theorist says here are the features of an individual. Much needed for Social, right?SPEAKER 1So that's right. So if there's an analysis like that, and then youSPEAKER 0could look at the development of those, and then youSPEAKER 1could, and ideally you would kind of have, oh, I mean, I guess ideally you'd have a situation where you're like these ones are clearly, these ones are much stronger in poverty when there's more inequality, these other ones are not so, so it would, it might solve this part of the equation but not just other part of the equation. That would be one strut. But right, but we're relying on trying to finding thoseSPEAKER 0types of papers to to to rely.SPEAKER 2Is there, um, do you think this sounds like I, I'm just slipping into another, um, field for a little bit of my, no, I mean, it's, I think it'sSPEAKER 0good too, that's fine that's, yeah, I think it's fineSPEAKER 1for you to use other fields, theories and stuff.SPEAKER 0You have to also include something about psychology and development,SPEAKER 1of course, but, but you having another field, sure. So I I it's hard to tell, give you clear advice to give because it's like because not having read or not I'm not sure if those papers exist, right?SPEAKER 0They could.SPEAKER 3Check out this guy, yeah, yeah, no, it's true, right,SPEAKER 1right, no, that, that is fair, right, because a lot of this work doesn't connect to about all the work in this area doesn't tend to connect to developmental work, so it's not, so it's not immediately popping to mind how you make those connections, but I could see entirely how you could start a literature research to see ifSPEAKER 2that exists.SPEAKER 100, sorry, so, we gotta get back to the next, but I can chat after a little bit.SPEAKER 3Oh I like. I'm sorry. I Oh Uh, hi everybody.