SPEAKER 1It's been 7 minutes, so everyone should be plenty rested. All right. So Now we're gonna get into the sort of, ah. Sort of theoretical content of that. Where the last bit was sort of a theoretical, right? We just sort of how these methods work. And so I'm gonna start telling you a bit about, all right, now we're going to start looking at The sort of nativism versus constructivism debate in infant cognition research. And a bias in this field, I'm going to say that I think there's a bias where we incentivize the claim that young infants. On children are quite sophisticated at surprisingly young ages, right? So, for example, if you say, if you kind of, now, if you kind of go like, oh my God, this 3 month old infant has an innate sense of right and wrong. Look at this 3 month old in this task, it's liking good doers and hating bad doers. And there are such papers that make these claims. I'm not gonna talk about those ones, I'm not talking about the moral ones, but There are ones, there are papers that have shown that this infant has an innate ability to do math. Right, that gets a lot of press because people didn't, don't think of their infants as doing math. If you're like this infant can't do anything but cry and poop, people are like, that is not a news story. Right, we all know that, right? So. We are, so people in the field are incentivized to talk about the amazing things that infants can do, and children as well. There are lots of, there's sort of, you can kind of categorize two kinds of child researchers. Like one is like, look at how amazing this amazingly smart this kid is. Another kind is like, look how dumb this kid is, right? So PhD, if you look at those conservation tasks, right? That's in the category of look how weirdly dumb these kids are. Why can't they solve this problem of like, which tube has more water in it, or whatever, right? But when you're like, they're geniuses all doing math when they're 3 months old, that is sort of like, Gets more attention. And so I tend to think to be very skeptical of those. Anytime, anytime there's a kind of finding you're incentivized to find, I think it's worth being skeptical of. So All right, so a few readings. These are both sort of long papers that talk about a whole bunch of stuff that you don't need, but some stuff that is relevant to what we're talking about. So Susan Carey wrote a book on the origin of concepts. Uh, it has a bunch of stuff on, this is a this is a, this is a nativist view of conceptual knowledge. Um, she had a bunch of stuff in there on infants and then also talks about a bunch of stuff that's relevant for our lectures next week on sort of reasoning in preschool children. So it's relevant for both And the Cohen and Cashin as a constructivist view, where it kind of summarizes a whole bunch of different areas. And a constructorist, and from a constructivist perspective. There's, I'm sort of listing the, we're gonna go over some of that stuff and you'll sort of be able to look in the, you'll be able to look in the chapter and if it's, and if it's about something that we didn't talk about at all, then it's not examinable. It's just the parts of the stuff that we're talking about is the stuff, you know, please read all of it for your own enrichment, but you won't be having exam questions on the bits that we're not also talking about in lecture. Right. So we were talking about. So going back to our question from last time, where does knowledge come from? And this is what this nativism and constructivism debate is about. However, if you start digging a bit deeper, You can look at, you can realize that everything. Has a genetic component. And everything, right, so every and everything has some learning. Right, if we had different genes, we wouldn't be humans. Right, chimpanzees have very similar genes to us, and they don't know language. So from that sense, language is genetic because only humans seem to, among the primates seem to have it. Something genetic is involved. But even if you're Noam Chomsky, you still have to learn the particular language that you're exposed to, right? I, if I grew up around English speakers, I learn English. If I grow up around any other language speakers, I learn that language. So, OK, so then what the hell are they arguing about if everything has learning and everything has something genetic? Well, so then further it has to do with. What are the learning mechanisms? Are there what we call domain-specific learning mechanisms, or are there just general learning mechanisms? Cause that has to do with what expectations the infant has about what the world is like. So when Chomsky was saying there is an innate language learning device, that it's innate in the sense that. The infant is born with an expectation that language exists in the sense that it will interpret language in a particular way and apply a bunch of particular learning processes that apply just to language. If you don't have any innate knowledge, you don't know anything about what exists in the world, all you can do is use learning mechanisms that apply to everything. I'm as exposed to the world, my, my brain is just plastic in this general way. And so, I just start sort of forming associations or whatever about whatever it is. I have no distinction, I don't know that objects exist. I don't know about, you know, people exist. I don't know anything. All I have is like basic learning mechanisms. So really, it's about, do we have targeted, do we have learning mechanisms? That sort of build in some assumptions about particular domains. Objects are like this, and so I'm gonna kind of learn about objects in this way. Language is like this, so I'm gonna learn about language in this way, or it's just. There's just stimuli in the world that I have to figure out somehow. So nativism often means cognitive modularity. Where, right, where you have specific module specific sort of cognitive modules that are dedicated to certain types of processes. So language has its own special, here, here's my language circuits, this is for language. Objects have their own special learning devices. And in modules, you have information is encapsulated. It's sensitive to specific inputs. And given those specific inputs, the module takes over and applies its innate knowledge. So for in language case, maybe it's like, oh, certain types of sounds coming from a human, another human will trigger my language module, and then I'll go, oh, start trying to figure out what language you're in, something like that. So These modules have specialized capabilities, potentially specialized brain tissue. You could imagine when people go, aha, this is the area for looking at faces, that's special to faces, we have a special innate face module. That is something that people have argued about, whether or not we have a special innate. Module in the brain just for faces, and you can imagine why that would be something that mattered. Faces are very important to humans, right? We kinda, you know, we look out, all your faces have looked very different to me. They're pretty similar to each other. If you were gonna just like. Characterize the basic properties of faces. You guys all pretty much look the same, but we are pretty good at telling the difference between people. Very rarely are you like, hey, that's, you know, very rarely you walk up to someone, you go, you're this other guy I know, and he goes, no, I'm not, I'm some other guy. Right? That almost never happens despite the thousands and thousands of faces you've seen in your life. So it kind of makes sense that you might have like specialized innate face circuits, right? Why not? Right. So the ideas are designed to pick up certain kinds of information from our senses, like, you know, eyes and ears and mouths. Given a particular perceptual input. Modules of active Empire, their core knowledge. So core knowledge is the term that Susan Carey uses to talk about the knowledge that's innate. The core knowledge is what we start out with, and then we learn all kinds of stuff. And when people think you have innate knowledge, they don't think you don't need to learn anything. It's like, this is, we, we are seeded with some core basic knowledge such as faces are important and language has blah blah blah. Well, right So For example, in this domain, we're talking about objects. Given certain perceptual inputs. And we'll talk about those shortly, what they are. It'll make you go, that's an object. And once it triggers your object module, you go, I know about objects. They, for example, exist while I'm not looking at them. They cannot pass through other objects. For example, solid objects cannot pass through each other. That's something that is supposedly in our core knowledge, right? And then you might learn specific things, right? You might learn that, you know, some objects are pointy and other objects are smooth. There's all kinds of stuff you might learn about particular objects, but the fundamental nature of objects existing. Is what is potentially, is what is being argued as innate. Right, so when everyone sort of talks about like developmental developing object permanence, the nativists go, you don't have to develop that, you start out with object permanence. This is anti-Page, if you're keeping track. These guys, cause Page kind of established the field and the and the nativists kind of came in as to sort of go, Page was wrong, we actually are born with lots of knowledge, or core knowledge specifically. On the other hand, constructivism. Some key principles. This is, you might call this neo-constructivism because it's like, it's not Piaget's ideas, but they're ideas that are like developed post Piaget. So we might call these neo page. Some key principles. What is innate is not any particular knowledge like objects exist. It's domain general information processing system that can detect low level feature information such as color and motion. So we have our basic sensory apparatus is innate that we can see light, we can see color, we can see when things are moving around. Right, even if your visual acuity is not perfect at, uh, when you're born, that develops quickly and is sort of innately driven. Then the idea is, we start constructing higher level units formed from the relationships among these things, like colors and motions, we might start putting them together. And then we keep on doing that. We kind of, we're constantly putting pieces of information into more and more of a hierarchical construction. So for example, in, in the Cohen and Strauss thing we were talking about, right, the older infants I mentioned could learn the pattern in the faces, but the younger infants weren't able to learn the pattern in the faces. They could only kind of look at the faces of the individual. The older infants were capable of chunking the faces into these categories. And this is sort of crucial, critical for all expertise. If you look at like classic research with like chess experts, they can have entire game sequences memorized, right? And flexibly adapt them versus just you're looking at the board, you haven't played chess and like I can go over there. Right? So, but the infants are starting with the, with the chunks that they're making are like solid objects can like be kind of put together. And people feed me. Things like that. This is sort of neopia suggestion. All right, so how do these, how does this become a debate? In the realm of object knowledge. We're gonna talk about object unity and object permanence. So object unity is looking, do infants represent parts of objects that they cannot see. Object permanence is sort of more conceptual. Do infants understand that objects exist that they cannot see? I'll break this all down. Page said infants do not start out with this ability. Cohen Akashin agree with this. Core knowledge people such as Susan Carey, Liz Felke, Liz Brajean argue that they, they do start with object knowledge. Where is, what is their evidence? All right, let's start with Kelman and Spelky, 1983. Now, object unity, so. All right, so if you know absolutely nothing. Right, and you see a person, let's say if I'm here and I'm like my leg sticking out over here, you can look at this and go, that's one object. The leg is attached to his body, even if I don't see where it's attached, even though there's a desk in front of me, you do not think there is a body floating around and a leg floating around that are not connected to each other. Right, but if infants know nothing. When they're born, they might be like, there's a leg floating around and a body floating around. They're not connected. That's what I mean by object unity is that they view the, do you view the objects as unified, or do you see a bunch of like detached parts kind of floating around separately? How might you test this? So during habituation, They show this. Red rod. Moving back and forth behind. A yellow occluder. Like a little piece of cardboard. It's just moving back and forth behind the cardboard. This is what they're betraying to, is this stimulus over and over. They're looking at it, they're seeing a raw, you know, so it's like, you know, here's, I don't know what, what is this? Yeah, so this is the cardboard, this is the raw, they're just like seeing the raw to go back and forth behind it. And the question is, do they see two detached. Broad parts moving back and forth. Independently, or do they think it's one whole rod behind the occluder? Now, they say Page would think. They are inferring they would not understand that there is one rod. They would view this as too. Broken rod parts. OK, so how do you test that? You habituate to the occluded rod, and then at test, you remove the occluder. You remove the yellow cardboard, right? So you get rid of this other thing and you just have the rod going back. Now. You have to show two conditions, one, where it is actually two independent pieces. Of Rod moving back and forth. And another version where it is one complete rod. I was thinking of the inanimate carbon rod from Simpsons, but I don't watch that anyway, so. We don't hear it for the dynamic common rod. So, OK, so what, what happens now? What happens when you, what would mean, sorry, what would mean you had the part, you did see the rod, right? So remember, you look longer at the things. You're surprised by Right? So if you think there's a complete rod, you look longer at the broken rod. If you think there are 2 separate rod pieces, you are surprised by the complete rod. Right? That's what I mean by the. Trickiness of infant research is you kind of have to flip these things around. You look more at the thing that you think it isn't. Right, so here we now. Here we have the results. The blue graphs are the habituation phase. This is a nice non-log transfer wide access. It is just the number of seconds. During the phase, you can see a nice downward. Moving Habituation phase looking time where they start out. At averaging 50 seconds. And then they get to. You know, 10 seconds by the end. Great. Then they show them. Now some infants get The broken rod first. And then the complete rod. And some infants get it like the other way. Right. And then, and here, and now look, they much prefer. The broken rod So that means they think it was a complete rot. The novelty preference of the broken rod means infants represented one unified rod during habituation. So these 4 months, so they say, ha ha, these 4 month olds have an innate sense of object unity. Take that Page. A second condition now. To get this idea of The module, they said the key perceptual input. To, telling an infant that it is an object. Is the comb, the correlated motion of surface, of disconnected surfaces. What does that mean? The two different parts of the rod were moving in the same way. Right? If, if half, if you saw this, and my hand was moving back and forth, but my elbow stayed put, you'd be like, that is not one arm. Right, but the fact that it all moved together makes you go, oh, that's one arm. So now they had a condition where they don't have the two rod parts moving back and forth, they're just showing a stationary rod, right? If it was moving completely, yeah, that'd be different, but they're just showing a stationary rod. Because the point is, is that, remember we're talking about the modules need key inputs to activate their knowledge. The sort of the co-motion of surfaces is that key input. To the object module in the core knowledge framework. Here The day is just kind of a mess. One, you can see they're not, they're not nearly as interested in it to begin with, right, because Uh, you remember, they're, they're here, they're only showing like 12 seconds compared to here 50 seconds. That's because it's not moving, right? So the more interesting condition is, there's also, so the one condition is way more interesting to them, right? Because it's not a stationary rod isn't nearly as fun as a moving rod. Every infant knows that. So, then you go. Then the fit looking time goes down, they habituate, and they're shown. And they don't kind of show anything. It's like, you know, they're not even really showing a preference for the Uh, complete rod, they're just kind of like, whatever, I'm not even really dealing with this. So, ideally, I think from their theory, you would have shown a preference for the com for the complete rod, having represented the broken rod, but instead, it's just kind of a wash. Sometimes that happens in research where you kind of have a control condition that you hope totally flips the pattern, but instead just kind of nothing happens. But the point is, they did not apply to their core knowledge, they did not apply their core module, their object module knowledge, right? Without the motion, they didn't, it didn't trigger their innate knowledge of objects. Now, what is A response, you might have thought it was settled. But instead, Uh, constructivists were like, We disagree So how might they explain this? Well, This is a learnable thing in the sense that. When similar appearing surfaces move around together. That probably means it is actually the same object. Right, if you have identity, you know, if they don't, if the two surfaces don't look anything like each other. And they don't move around in the same way, those are probably different objects. If the two surfaces look identical and they move around together, they're probably the same object. So there's no reason why you couldn't just learn this from experience. Of just like looking at objects, going in and like going behind things and out from other things, and sort of notice which perceptual features tend to sort of go together. Why do you need genes telling you this? And they say, well, what will change over the 1st 4 months is the ability to construct an object percept from visual input. All right, so Johnson and Aslin have 2 month olds. Who need a great, who, who, who only show the pattern of the 4 month olds. When only a little bit is occluded. So they, they did it with like a smaller piece of cardboard covering up the rod, so you can see more of the rod. Then the two month olds. Uh, showed this pattern, but they didn't show that pat the key pattern, when as much was covered as. In the original study, Slater, Johnson and Brown and Ben and Cook, 1996, newborns show preference for the whole raw. Yeah, so 4, so they're arguing that 4 months is long enough to develop this perceptual ability. All right, You might think that settled something. It did not. So Here's a quote from Susan Carey. Fourth, success at some tasks provides support for some target representational capacity needed to perform it, whereas failure is not necessarily good evidence that the target capacity is lacking. Some other capacity, independent of the target 1 may be needed for the task and may not yet be available. So, for another example, infants' failure until 2 months of age to create a representation of a complete rod partially hidden behind a barrier when they are shown the protruding ends undergoing common motion is at least partly explained by their failure to notice the common motion across the barrier. Thus they lack the critical input to the punitively innate computation. So what does that mean? So basically, if you need to see the co-motion. Of disjointed surfaces to trigger your object module, what she's saying is, the 2 month, the newborns and the 22 month olds are much worse at tracking the motion. It's not until 4 months of age that the infants can see the com-motion easily, and before that, they have no way to trigger their innate knowledge. You might start asking, is this a falsifiable theory? Right? So we'll get more onto that later, but for now, for Object Unity, the constructivists say the gradual development from newborns to 2 month olds to 4 month olds show the gradual development in the behavior. Shows the gradual development of construct of the object unity ability. Nativists say the development is the developing ability to perceive motion, allowing the object core knowledge to be activated and applied. Now we'll look at object permanence. And we'll finally get a video of a baby.SPEAKER 4What do you have there? Is that your yummy giraffe? Let me see. Let me see. This is how PSA we tested all the permits.SPEAKER 1I'm gonna put this object under this thing, but she's like, I don't know where it is.SPEAKER 4Where do you go?SPEAKER 1Way to go.SPEAKER 4Oh, there it is, yeah. Right, so this is, again, this is the type ofSPEAKER 1guy there with you rather than these habituation time thing. Which are which and the argument is that situation allows. Yes, that's true. Are more sensitive to the infant's true ability than these kind of overt behavioral tensions. OK. Right, so this is a 7 month old infant, right? A 9 month old infant, if I don't have a video of that here, would have reached under the thing to find it. The point is that like at 7 months old, they haven't developed object permanence. The toy goes away and the infant's like, I don't know what to do. But then a 9 month old infant, you put the toy under there, and then the infant's like, I'm gonna get it. It's, I know where it is. Right, so even though it's using this very kind of overt behavior, you do see changes in a short period of time, which is why Page said it took around 8 months to develop this capacity. I mean, there's sort of this assumption that Yeah, like their surprisal of Peekaboo is based on not having object permanence, but like, it's unclear if that real, you know, it's also just kind of nice to see your face, you know. So Infants do really like other people's faces. When you get older, you get sick. That's right, um. All right, so now we're gonna use another paradigm that uses familiarization, that tends to use familiarization. Now, here's Renee, sorry, I called her Liz Berjean before, apologies to Renee Baerjean. Mixing up my nativists.SPEAKER 5At the University of Illinois, a team of researchers is now using ingenious experiments to discover previously unsuspected abilities of newborns and young children. Professor Renee Balejean studies how babies develop the concept of object permanence.SPEAKER 6By object permanence, we mean really a set of beliefs about objects. The first and most fundamental belief is that objects continue to exist when hidden. The first person to investigate the development of objects. Eminence beliefs in infants was Jean Piaget, the famous Swiss psychologist, and he claimed that it's not until approximately 8 to 9 months of age that infants understand that objects continue to exist when hidden, and that it's not until approximately 12 months of age that babies begin to understand that objects not only exist but retain. Their physical and spatial properties when hidden. What we've done is to devise a series of tasks where the infant simply had to look at possible and impossible events.SPEAKER 5In this experiment, a six month old baby watches a cart rolling down tracks, going behind a screen and coming out the other side. The screen is lifted to show a block sitting behind the tracks. Next, the baby sees the block placed on top of the tracks. The screen comes down, the cart rolls exactly as before. But in the real world of permanent objects, the block should have stopped the cart. The baby stares longer at this apparently impossible event.SPEAKER 6When infants are surprised or puzzled by an event, they tend to look at it longer. So our prediction is always that if infants perceive the events as we do, then they will look longer at the impossible or magical event than at the possible event. And what we found is that infants as young as 3.5 months of age and perhaps younger, but certainly as young as 3.5 months of age, understand that objects continue to exist when hidden. One contribution of this research is to say that we must really take a very close look at infants' physical knowledge. It's much richer, much more sophisticated than used to be thought.SPEAKER 0All right, so I try to teach you a simpleSPEAKER 1methodological story and then people, unfortunately mess it up a bit. So what's going on here? She is using, she developed what she calls a violation of expectation paradigm where. Oh Uh, this is a slightly different example, but it's the same type of thing where Alright, so in that, in that one. So, so the idea that violates expectation is that you know about the world. Unlike an habituation study that Les Cohen's are doing, Les Cohen's assuming you're coming in with no knowledge of what we're gonna show you. I'm gonna show you a bunch of weird new faces or whatever it is, and you're, you're gonna have no expectations, you're gonna come in and habituate based on what you see. Renee Baerjean is saying, no, infants come into the study with all kinds of knowledge already. So they, what might override. Perceptual familiarity, right? In the habituation paradigm, you're like, OK, you're gonna care about what's novel and not about what's familiar. But what if we set it up in a way that the what the physically impossible thing is relatively more familiar than the physically impossible thing in this context. So in that context, right, they're they. were aware, let's say you watched the um Uh, Little car going down the ramp over and over again, right? You lowered the little occluder, right, that little screen, so you saw the car go across the ramp over and over again. So you're like, all right, this car is going down the hill, it's going behind the little yellow screen, and it's coming out the other side. That's just what you would expect to happen. It goes behind the screen, comes out the other side, it's moving fast. Then you put the and then suddenly a test, after you get generally familiarized with this procedure, OK, I get it, I'm watching this car go down a ramp, going behind the screen and coming out the other side, great. Then, You put this box on the tracks. Right? Now, The occluder is still going to cover it, so you're not gonna see the box, but you've shown the kid that a box is now on the tracks. Right? What do they expect to happen? Now, if all they care about is familiarity and novelty, they will look longer if the car comes out the other side. Because that's what they've seen happen over and over again. The car comes out the other side. But Now there's a box there, their knowledge of physics should tell them that it should not come out the other side anymore. Right? Because it can't, because the solid objects can't pass through each other. I don't know if you guys think about that a lot, but that's the type of thing that infants may or may not know at this age. So Then what, so that means if you think about that object, if you know that solid objects, even when I can't see them, cause they're behind an occluder. Can't pass through each other. Then you should expect the, uh, then you should expect the car to stop. And not come out the other side, even though that is novel. I've never seen that before, I've never seen this car not come out the other side, it's always come out the other side. Right, so here you're expecting, so she's flipping the novelty preference on its head by adding this new physical element. Where if you understand physics, you will be surprised if the exact same thing happens. But if I don't understand physics, then I will just be surprised based on the perceptual novelty of the event. Here's a slightly different version of that same idea, where it's like a drawbridge that's kind of opening and it's sort of I don't know, it's like a. It's a weird, like this lid of a thing that's like opening and closing all the way. It's sort of going up and then coming all the way back down in front of the infant. This sort of happens over and over again. OK, this thing's opening up and it's going back down. Right, then you put a little box there, you know, she likes putting boxes on things to interfere with what's been going on previously. Right here. Now, The, the little lid, the little like rotating lid thing, shouldn't go all the way down, because the lid, that this sort of other boxes in the way, it should stop, right? So again, the new thing is the possible thing, stopping when it hits the box. Right, the familiar thing is the impossible thing, which is continuing to move as if it's going through the box. But because they cleverly set this up, the, the rotating lid thing is bigger than the box behind it, so they can. Remove the box. And the thing is sort of is like magically going down. Right, so a lot of us are like doing these very sort of clumsy magic tricks where you go like, oh, where's the box? And the infant, you know, it's like you cut the infant's like that box should still be there, but then you've set up a little trick, like remove it. All right, so, so it's clear, so here, the infant. This one and in the car one, they are showing longer looking times to the perceptually familiar but now physically impossible event. According to this world, it doesn't have ways of removing boxes without you seeing it, right? But they're and they're looking. They're they're surprised by that. They are not surprised by the perceptually novel. A new event. That has changed because of the presence of the box. They go like, I get it, you can't, things can't go through each other. So this is evidence that they do actually have this knowledge of objects. They exist when we're not looking at them and they can't pass through each other. We have this physics knowledge innately. Right, so the complete board lowering is perceptually familiar, but with the object there, it is impossible. But only if infants represent the occluded object. The claim is that infants show a novelty preference and percept if the infants show a novelty preference in perception alone is all that's happening in these infant studies is like perceptual novelty versus perceptual familiarity, and they have no deeper conceptual understanding. They should be surprised by the partial movement, but they are not suggesting they represent the physical object. However, People like Les Cohen said, you use a familiarity preference, so you don't know if they should have a familiarity. You use a familiarization procedure, so you don't know if you should have a familiarity preference or a novelty preference. So So Les Cohen had a special issue of a journal, just dedicated, he's, he, he was the editor of the Overt Journal of Infancy and somewhat spitefully, you could say, just invited a special issue inviting lots of people to criticize Renee Pyarjean's work, and then she was allowed to respond in the journal. These guys weren't great friends. But Um, and everyone was like, this is why the study was bad that Renee did. Um And they said, well, She, she included all these infants who didn't fully habituate. You don't know if they're showing familiarity preferences in the Hunter and Ames sense, just last half an hour ago, 45 minutes ago, I was talking about how if they're not fully habituated, you don't know if they'd have a familiarity preference or a novelty preference. This is a confound in her study. Also, these are very complex, rich. Events, these are the type of things that you would take a long time to habituate to because of how complex they are. It's not just a picture of a, it's not just a picture of like one still face. It's like a complicated event with lots of cars and, you know, there's these cars are moving around and stuff like this. So Some people have sort of, you know, picked their sides, but most people are just standardly taught that infants, uh, that the Baraja interpretation is, is correct. Um, So then in the Cohen and Cassian chapter, he goes, all right. We're gonna look, we're gonna try to be constructive and not and not just say, we're not just gonna argue that no one can interpret the data in your studies, we're gonna try to look at some other studies that are sort of making more of a positive contribution. And they, and they talk about Meltoff and more, which talks about the difference between kind of memory for an object versus a deeper understanding of object permanence. Or sorry, is anyone with questions about this familiarity versus impossible stuff?SPEAKER 2So, um, when the child represents.SPEAKER 1Like There's something about the object in the child's mind, right? So that, so the object is currently unseeing, so you currently can't see the object. Right? The, the, the, the yellow occluder is down, right? So like, you know, the car was driving past the wall, behind the wall. The wall is down. Do they, is there, while the car is behind the wall, is it in their mind? Yeah, they, yeah, and the same thing with the box, so they put the box there, if, you know, so if Renee Barrajean, the, the wall is dropped, there's a box behind the wall, the child has an understanding that the box is there, and that when the car goes by, it will clash into the hidden box, even though neither of those objects can be seen. Right, and that's a contrast with what we saw from that little video where the idea was that that seven month old wasn't reaching for the toy once it was hidden, right? It was like, here's the toy that wants, you put it under the little rug thing, and the, the kid's like, I don't know where to look for it. They were just kind of like, what's going on? Yeah, it just sort of looked like they were just had no idea what to do. But then you have a nine month old infant and it's like reaching under the, under the thing. 00, right, yeah, yeah, yeah. They're just, yeah, they're just kind of like looking at, in that case, it's like, are they just kind of looking at the whole thing, or are they like going off and being like, what's mom up to? Or like, what's going on over here? This, yeah, yeah, like, yeah, they're like, are they kind of interested in this whole event. And then they're like looking at a puzzle that how, how long are they staying engaged by this event versus how long are they just kind of like, whatever, I'm should look elsewhere. Yes. Uh, Yes, yes, because she was saying the infants are surprised by the physically impossible event. They mean that they know about object physics. They innately know about basic physics of objects, so they're surprised by the physically impossible event. Uh, rather than just the perceptual, they don't care about perceptual novelty. Physical impossibility overrides perceptual novelty in what they are surprised by. Right, you can't get them to just familiarize to like impossible stuff or something. Right, right. And then the reply is that no, they actually just care about the perceptual stuff. They lost the Right, like rather than newborn or something. I'm trying to think how young they did that type of stuff. It is there's a certain amount of sometimes it's more complex events, they don't even really try the thing they did with the the rod is kind of simple enough that like, we can kind of do that with newborns, but it's, you have a certain amount of ability, the infant to even kind of sit in one place and pay attention to something. I feel like they never really went that much earlier than 3 or 4 months with these more complicated paradigms, but you're right, you don't really know. What could happen in the 1st 3 months. So, so one of the tactics we're talking about, if you read that chapter, one of the things that the sort of anti-nativist people do is they try to train artificial neural networks to sort of show that they, they have a developmental pattern that can like do this type of thing, right? They kind of go, they have no, so let's say we can't really measure anything younger than 4 months of age or something. I, I don't really know, like how might you. Test that. So then you start looking at like art models that might develop these abilities or not, or, you know, you might say, oh look, we could sort of stimulate the development of this in this amount of time, even though there's no like innate thing in the model that kind of extracts it. It can extract this from, you can like train it on visual input and it'll start responding this way. Now, how exactly you take neural network responses and map that onto infant looking time, it's, its own problem that we won't. Talk about, but it is discussed in the, in the chapter if you're interested in, in that, the sort of, that's sort of one of the theoretical art, like there's this book called Rethinking Innateness, that's all about artificial neural networks as sort of re-explaining all of these kinds of Findings where you can basically sort of account for all of it through these simulations, but um, I know you didn't exactly answer that, but, but that's sort of one way that these arguments, when you start sort of going younger than you can feasibly do an infant to do, you kind of have these other sorts of theoretical arguments about it. Right, cause in theory you could get, right, yeah, yeah, so sorry, sorry, right. So, In theory, you could say it just developed in 4 months rather than You know, you can develop rather than that, but I, but particularly Also show what they, but the constructivists end up so end up arguing that PAA's timeline was actually correct, which is what the next one, I'll, the next study argues for that. Sort of argues for PAJ's timeline and not just that infants learn this faster than PAJ thought, but still constructivists, they actually argue for that timeline. Right, but in theory, you could have just learned it faster or something like that. But you would still want a gradual, you would, sorry, so you would still show a constructive his account, an incremental change, right? So the object unity, you had at 0 months, right, they couldn't see the, the rod, they showed no, sorry, at 0 months, they assumed it was an incomplete 2 rod parts, at 2 months. They could infer the whole raw, but only with lots more perceptual evidence. And at 4 months, they, they could do it with like less perceptual evidence. They're getting incremental change, what they're arguing is like an increase in the basic processing capacity with experience, right? In this other domain, you can't really get the same type of incremental pattern in the behavior, and so they have it at that very young age. So there's a bit of constraints of like what you can get them to do. That makes sense. But I'll, I'll show you this timeline of, of here's evidence that um, Uh, so here's some evidence for the PHS and timeline. So talking about representation of the object, right? So you're asking about what does it mean. So behind the curtain. Right? They're expecting an object to come out the other side. That's sort of the idea is like, oh, if there's no box behind it, they should expect the object to come out the other side. Now Does that mean they kind of understand object permanence? I guess some deep level of like the nature of objects or that they are permanent, or do they just kind of have like a memory of the object that lasts more than 1 2nd. These are very like short events, right? It's not like, you know, I don't think people would say they have no memory at all, no working memory span at all, right? So how might you tell a difference? Here, what you do here is you have an object coming from behind. The Curtain And it comes out the other side, a different object. Right? Here You would just say everyone should be surprised by this, right? If you have a memory of another object or you understand object permanence. You will notice that the object that came, that went behind the curtain was not the same object that came out the other side. It was blue, and now it's red or whatever. All right. However, another task is, let's say there's two little curtains. One object comes in. One side, and then it comes out. Comes behind the first curtain and and emerges. Behind the second curtain Right? If you have object permanence, you should think it appears in between the two currents. Right? But if all you care, if all you kind of have is like a memory of the object, that it was there, right? Cause if, if the object changes, all you need, all you need, like, if an object changes, you don't need object permanence to be surprised by that, you just see something that is different than your memory. But if you, if you understand that objects are permanent, not only that means that they exist, not not only does it mean they might exist when you're not looking at them, but they should exist when you could have seen them. Right? The object can't skip the in-between space between the curtains. It can't go behind one curtain out the other without going in between. And so the violation is it goes in behind one, and then the same object comes out behind the next one, without a with the gap, see there's a gap in the middle. Here, the 5 month olds, everyone's surprised when the object, when one object goes in and a different object comes out. Everyone's surprised by that, 5 month olds and 9 month olds. However, the 5 month olds are not surprised. When one object comes behind one curtain and then emerges from the second curtain without appearing in the middle. While the nine month olds are surprised by that. The 9 month olds are like, you can't get from here to here without going in between. So this This finding is consistent with the PAA timeline, and it's not until around 9 months that they're showing object permanence. So All right, this is being timed well. So both aspects. Of object knowledge appear to have a piecemeal development with constructivism. Object unity increases the amount of increases the amount of object that can be occluded, the infant can infer with increasing age. Object permanence, right? The memory specific object features predates a more complete understanding of permanence. The idea is that there are these sort of bits that are coming together, right? Uh, and in both of these capacities. There's different timelines, right, cause I, I said there wasn't anything that in the object permanence world they were looking at before those 4 months of age. That's more in the object unity testing. The object permanence testing, they should have shown this development more around 4 or 5 months versus 9 months. But they're each showing a kind of incremental change. So what's then the advantage part, so then if you're a scientist and you're trying to have an Occam's razor thing, if, so the constructivists are like, look, everything we look at will have changes in its development. So why, what is innateness buying you as a scientific theory? Like what is it explaining that we just can't explain with just incremental gradual development? So Given gradual development of unity permanence, what explanatory value does innateness hold? Carrie says innateness does not mean present at birth and zero development. One key prediction is that different aspects of a whole system of core cognition, ge object knowledge, will come online simultaneously. So for example, now, this is something to unders to really understand what this is talking about, you might, you probably have to do the reading. But to understand object unity, co-develop some other abilities to differentiate. So, if you're trying to keep track of how many objects there are behind an occluder, The ability to do the rod stuff happens at the exact same time in infants to keep track of like how many objects are occluded. So, using different types of spatial temporal cues than com-motion. So there's a bunch of these different events with objects, and they innate and say, hey, look, these things all happen at once. Right, and if you're, and they say if you're a constructivist, you have no reason to think that these two distinct knowledge pieces about objects should happen at the same time. But if you are a core knowledge person, then you go, once you have the perceptual input to trigger the object knowledge, then you should be able to show all of your object knowledge. So And Carrie reviews the evidence for this, but we don't have time to go into it. So, but check out that part of the chapter. Now, infant, so object knowledge, right? So in summary, infants are representing parts of the object they cannot see, unifying whole objects. Right? Infant, oh yeah, we just said all this. It's basically evidence of both sides. You can talk, you can make the argument. Remember, the goal is to be able to make the argument for both sides. Right? Key learning outcomes. You can write strong arguments, both nativist and constructive accounts of the development of object knowledge. Uh, there'll be more about this next lecture on causal knowledge. We, we go through the same debate again, but about causal knowledge. The arguments, these arguments that link theories, methods, and data. Again, you're, you're never, you'll never, the, the test will not just be like, did they like the box or whatever. It'll be like, how does, you know, do they look at the box longer or not the box? You know, it'll be, how do these accounts. Support how, you know, how does Renee Barrajean uses evidence support her argument would be the type of, would be the kind of question. Oh, now we should do the quiz before it's too late. Right Let's see how to make this a full screen. Uh Present That's, there we go. Is that, is that text to, ah, uh-huh, look at that, there we go. That's big enough. Now I'm going all the way back to that first part. You also look. To get quiz credit, enter on Canvas, could have done this a little earlier in the class, so, where you could have, we could have voted, and then I would tell you the right answer to put into Canvas, but. No, you don't have time for that. You can do so. What is the critical part of the generalization habituation work? That infants will always show a novelty preference after habituating, that infants may show a familiarity preference or a novelty preference not fully habituated, that. Oh, the, well, that's bad that the rest of the rest of the sentence is gone. The infants habituate to the pattern in the stimuli, not just the specific stimuli. So that's probably why, so. Yeah, so the answer is now the, the, all these are kind of true statements, but the general habituation work specifically is about C, though that one of these times I'll get the quiz right. But the infants habituate, so that one was missing words, but whatever. So, right, remember the generalization of habituation work is that the infants habituate to the pattern in the stimuli, not just the individual stimuli, right? Even though those other two things are true, that's not the point of the generalization habituation work. So it's a. Yes, so the, so the answer is C. So to put it in the canvas, C, this one. That makes sense. All right, look at that. Ending on time. No problem, yeah. Yeah, so put C into canvas.SPEAKER 3I Why did that just Hello, sorry, I just wannaSPEAKER 1make sure I'm signed out. Now Sign out It's not signing me up. That's not good. What, sorry. The fact that it's not signing me out is like a secure, is not good.SPEAKER 3Yeah Let's see if it works again.SPEAKER 1Uh-huh, good. All right, sorry, I just had to like. Make sure I was all signed out of there.SPEAKER 3Um, I. Nothing now.SPEAKER 0they don't want us staring anything.SPEAKER 1Sorry, but we'll, we're gonna have review sessions.SPEAKER 3Like closer to like yeah. Well, I guess the other I Yeah.SPEAKER 1Yeah, yeah, so, I mean, you know, yeah, the learning outcomes, if you think about, right, those, and that's theSPEAKER 0best way to do it.SPEAKER 3If you have any particular questions. what Oh yeah.SPEAKER 1I mean, hopefully, they're alive.SPEAKER 3Always more elaborated, yeah, yeah, yeah, but that is true,SPEAKER 1right, so the papers would also work. Yeah, but, but also, but you can also look over, right, so. If there's stuff on the slides that I don't talk about, there's sometimes the slides just have like little prompts that I don't necessarily read directly out. Like, oh, what was he talking about? What does Chomsky mean? I don't necessarily say all that. That's also not like riding much. Content or whatever. Um, yeah, so there shouldn't be anything on the slides that are inconsistent. Hopefully it's not inconsistent. Uh, that would be Um, yeah, I mean, Hopefully, I'm saying everything that's necessary, so that you could use the slides to sort of cue you, but you can also just look at back at the recordings. You can also just like go back to the recordings and like, if you're kind of looking at, if you're kind of reading a paper, trying to like explain to yourself what do you think. They're like, I, I don't know what the hell is happening here. Hopefully, going to my point in the lecture where I talk about it.