SPEAKER 0Yeah. Uh-huh. All right, hello, everyone.SPEAKER 1That seems to be working. All right. I hope everyone enjoyed spring break as. We don't call it in Australia, um. So we're talking about. Today we're talking about, uh, lectures a few different names, talking about multi-sensory integration or dynamic systems theories of early infant cognition. Um, there's a bunch of Cohen and Cash in that, that chapter. So sometimes I'm listing a couple of papers, but a lot of the papers apply across multiple lectures. So it's not like every lecture is new, new papers, or this one also, Linda Smith's 2013 paper is also, uh, relevant. All right, So what is this theoretical approach? That we're talking about today. So building knowledge and multi-sensory integration. So we're talking about, so we're, so there's still I mean, there's sort of more of an emphasis on visual processing in infancy, sort of over kind of everything else because it's kind of the easiest sort of way to, to do your research, but we're gonna be talking about the body, uh. As well today, cause sort of multi-sensory integration is from different motor actions, sort of body control, also, you know, putting things in your mouth, uh, which infants do quite a lot of. All right, um, You know, we tend to limit it to food and a couple of other things later in life. Uh, but lots of exploration by putting things in, infants put things in their mouths to sort of understand what they are, right? So all that kind of stuff is leading to their development of their understanding of the world. Right, so the first point of this sort of thing is that development is, whoops, wrong button. Peace. Is that supposed to have more things on it? All right, well, don't worry about it. First point, development is piecemeal. Oh no, why isn't this letting me play this? Hold on. Not like, ah, enable content. Here we go. All right, we're gonna watch this video. We're just gonna watch the first few minutes here. Fine art. Why is it all the way there? Let's go back to. This is a sort of, this was a nice uh video that was, uh, this interviews Esther Thielen, who was a sort of pioneer in understanding children's ability to learn to walk and other sort of motor development. We're gonna watch a few minutes of it, so it's very, it's like well produced and made for a general audience, so. It's a question that has intrigued scientists for at leastSPEAKER 260 years since this 3 month. Thold was filmed learning to sit. It's a question that has intrigued scientists for at least 60 years since this 3 month old was filmed learning to sit. Then 3 months later to roll. And at 9 months take his first supported steps. The film was made by psychologist Myrtle McGraw, who in the 1930s did some startling experiments, like dunking a two week old in a pool to see if he could swim. And all drowned. Luckily he could make sure they. Her most famous experiment was with these twins, Jimmy on the left and Johnny on the right. Johnny was given some unusual opportunities. Introduced to roller skates at 13 months, he was soon an expert. Johnny's physical training continued as he grew older, and he outperformed his untrained twin on tests of physical strength and agility. But on the basics, sitting, crawling, walking, Johnny didn't develop any better or more quickly than Jimmy.SPEAKER 3Why don't you bring Matthew in?SPEAKER 2And we wanna Myrtle McGraw's research inspired generations of psychologists to try to find out how much of a baby's physical development is inborn and how much comes from on the job training, and we're gonna prime the pump aSPEAKER 3little bit here and see if we can give him the idea that he can bounce in this.SPEAKER 2I recently visited one of these psychologists, Harvard's Gene Goldfield, on the day he was meeting six month old Matthew. Oops, you're supposed to bounce, not fly.SPEAKER 3They don't know what to do in this situation, they really, there are no instructions. There is no instructor, and so what do you do? Well, you do whatever you have available, and what babies have available is that they can kick, and look, and listen, and feel.SPEAKER 2B. Now Matthew certainly isn't genetically programmed to operate a baby bouncer. And in this first encounter, he didn't discover its secret. You step off the edge of the earth like that, it's hard. On her first try, six month old Eve didn't get very far either. But by the time of my visit 10 days later, Wait a minute, this is contagious. I like this you're right. Eve's feet and legs have now figured out for themselves exactly when and how hard to kick to get the bouncer bouncing. Eve herself is just having fun.SPEAKER 3Clearly what she's doing is paying attention to the fact. That something that she's doing is producing some effect, and it's very motivating.SPEAKER 2Ah, he discovers video. Eve's brain isn't figuring out the physics of the bouncer, it's just enjoying the result, nor have her genes programmed her to bounce. What's happened is that her legs have discovered for themselves just what to do. That's great, isn't it? This idea that babies' bodies aren't rigidly preprogrammed but have to learn for themselves is at the core of Esther Thale's research. I hope the baby's in a good mood, Esther.SPEAKER 4I think she will be. Mom said that, uh, that she's, uh, well, well rested and, uh, she's been fed, so she should be in pretty good shape.SPEAKER 2Not many research laboratories are able to travel to the subjects they study rather than the other way around.SPEAKER 1I tried to get this university to buy me a van.SPEAKER 4How's the baby?SPEAKER 0She's doing great. I was like, it's a ban to do experiments on kids. What's the problem.SPEAKER 2All of Esther Thawen's research is designed to catch babies in the act of acquiring some new skill video, butSPEAKER 1probably don't have time to watch it all here, but we, we got a couple of notes. One, so I've noticed this sort of connection to some of the PHSian ideas in there, right, that the kids have, they're part of a big part of PAJ what gets development going is kids just liking to. Infants just liking to do the things they can do, right? So, that baby was like, once they figured out how to bounce, how to go bouncing up and down, it's just like, I'm gonna do this for a while cause I can just, it's just fun being able to sort of practice the behaviors that I'm Figuring out, like, all right, it's like, you know, every one of these little behaviors is a skill, right? And they like practicing all the skills they're developing. You know, of course, I'm not a, it doesn't seem that impressive to a not a baby to be able to move your legs, but it's, you know, they're, they, they've got to figure each thing out, right? And also, the key sort of insight from this. Is how motor learning and training is very specific to those particular actions, right? So remember that, so. Rather they said they gave that one kid that's like on roller skates, right? And he's like doing all this crazy stuff, but then it's not actually helping him walk or do anything that's sort of a part of typical development. Right, so one of the things that sort of is coming, that comes out of a lot of this motor development work is how little generalization of learning there is. It's like every little bit has to be developed as its individual skill. There's very little amount of generalizing skills across such, you, you, you, you vary your context a little bit, and the, the infant has to start over. Now I'll give you Some Examples of that.SPEAKER 5Dexcom CGMs monitor glucose levels with automatic high and low glucose alerts. Choose an easy CGM and shop Dexcom One Plus for people living with type 2 diabetes or get Dexcom G7 subsidized for Australians living with type 1 diabetes.SPEAKER 6Why is this, hold on. What is it about new crawlers that prevents them from assessing what's dangerous for them? That's the question that interests Karen Adolph. She understands that the world looks completely different to a baby when he's seated and when he first begins to crawl. Each new posture from lying to sitting to crawling, brings new lessons to be learned, new obstacles to be overcome. Karen Adolph wondered if infants can apply what they learned about their abilities as sitters to the new posture of crawling. At 9 months, Ethan has had a lot of experience sitting. That experience has taught him how far he can stretch across a gap before he loses his balance and falls in. When the gap gets too large for him, he refuses to reach for the toy. He is torn between his desire and his better sense.SPEAKER 0What you doing? what?SPEAKER 6Next, Doctor Adolf tries the same gaps, but with Ethan Crawling. For what? He has shown that there is a gap in the floor.SPEAKER 0No But Ethan is a new crawler.SPEAKER 6He has no inkling what the gap means when he is crawling. He misjudges its width and depth. Things look different to him from this new and still unfamiliar posture.SPEAKER 0can do Right, so, right, right, so we're sitting, right,SPEAKER 1and he's like, I don't want to reach across this gap. I'm gonna fall in. I can't reach across, right? And he's been sitting for several months at this point. Uh, he's just starting to crawl. So, then the baby's crawling and doesn't in the exact same gap, doesn't realize he'll fall in if he's crawling. Right? And so we'll try to reach across it. So the idea is that they're sort of understanding of the world is tied to the particular motor movements they've done, right? So they don't, you know, as an adult, we might think we integrate across these experiences, but all of these things are these piecemeal developments. They're understanding of space, so that basically the infant learns how space works as a sitter, and has to like relearn as a crawler, and has to learn again as a walker. A lot of these different types of judgments. Right, so that's sort of, uh, you know, and you could think of this as like risky decision making, right? We, you know, this is motor development, but it's also like higher level cognition in the sense that you might look at like, what type of risks are you willing to take in your life, right? So, this kind of risk, you know, their assessment of risk. Uh, the baby is not generalizing. What they've learned from sitting is not generalizing the crawling. It takes a new batch of, it makes a new batch of experience. Yeah, so Right, there, there, there, there are these. This is almost going the other way, where in that sense. You know, this is more like their ability to sort of use their body to feed into the decision making rather than their kind of Brain not knowing how to coordinate. The body Does that make sense? You know, it's, it's still these, yeah, it's right. You're definitely right. But these things are all integrated, right? So, so you're right. So I think, so the dynamic systems sort of view of these things is, which we'll talk about shortly is that our kind of higher-level thinking and our motor control and our perception are all integrated, right? Rather than thinking we have this kind of distinction, right? Well, shortly, but basically, a lot of sort of historically. We kind of think of, I don't know why these, I'm sorry, there's about that font change and all that title, but yeah, so there's a distinction between kind of what's thinking and what's perception and action. And this viewpoint kind of views thinking, perception and action as one unified process rather than, right, rather than something like risk, risky decision making is like one thing that's sort of devoid of our bodies. These sort of views view all of these things as embodied. Right, yeah. Um, So This idea is that in this view, development is driven by the dynamics of the organism, the environment. And the task that they're trying to do. So for, so there's other kinds of examples like Vanessahelin's research where, right, where kids can't, you know, they can walk if they're in water, but maybe not if they're not in water because the water, you might think, oh, this child hasn't, isn't walking yet because their brain hasn't developed enough to do that motor control. But then you can sort of put them in water. And they can kind of walk because it turns out it has a lot to do with also their muscle strength just as much, right? And so, lots of their development is all through this interaction rather than rather than isolating the mind from the body and the environment, they says to understand development, you have to sort of have an understanding of mind, body, and environment together. So Right. And so one of the things showing here earlier, right as I just, sorry, I just said this because I was on the next slide, is that rather than focusing entirely on like the brain, right? Rather, because as cognitive development people, we're gonna do, we're, we're sort of likely to think about the brain as the primary thing that's changing in children's development, but. How the body and the environment, these things are all lit lit blanked in this dynamic systems view, thinks it's, you're really gonna miss out on what's going on if you're only focusing on brain changes. So, all right, so, so I'm just sort of starting out, we're not gonna, you could spend a long time just on all this pattern of motor control, but ultimately, I'm just trying to sort of show how this is part of conceptual development. Right, but I, but I'll give you an, I'll give you an example here of how this stuff starts to How they start to do this kind of research to show that things that we think of as sort of intelligence or conceptual knowledge. Um Is tied to all this brain, body, and environment dynamics. So here's Uh, uh So the A, not B error. Is a PHSion thing that happens sort of along the line of object permanence development. Where, so if you remember last time, the example of, of the Pageian example of not having object permanence was they hide the toy and they um don't go reaching for it, right? Now here Is a slightly more sophisticated thing where they're still showing an error, where you hide the toy in one location repeatedly, called. For lack of a better word, uh, this is a hole, so it's the A hole, and then the second one is the B hole. I guess we'd call it the A location and the B location. But, so there's, so there's a hole that you're putting the toy in, the Aloca, the, the, the A location, and the toy you're putting the B, you know, the other one, so you're putting it in the A location over and over again, it's reaching towards it, then you change it to the B location. And then you, uh, then the child perseverates and goes looking for it in the original location again. All right. So, so, so. You ready? Right, so you remember the last time, the seven month old wouldn't look good, right? Yes.SPEAKER 0Very good, Janice. He's the one that he is. There he is.SPEAKER 1This, this strates there aren't even any holes. Sometimes there's actually a hole that it sinks into, so you can't just see a lump. So you want to be able to not see the lump in the, in the little thing to sort of be a, a cube.SPEAKER 0Can I add the monkey? Here we go, boop boop boop boop. You're holding on tight this time. You're holding on tight this time. There he is. There he is.SPEAKER 1But now she's like, what the hell, where'd it go? Hm, where is it? So when it's just one, right, when there's just one hiding location, she, and she's going back to look for it. Oh, right, the fact that it was like this repeated behavior. The fact that this was like repeated behavior to find it in one location suggests they're passing the basic ominous permanent test in the PASion scheme, but then it goes to the other location, the other hiding place, and it's like, she's like, what the hell, it's not the only place where I'm aware that it could be. Right? Now. Page explains this in terms of sort of incomplete object scheme schemas. Right, like the object permanence isn't really completely being developed. However, Linda Smith, in 1999, I won't go through the data, but just to sort of give you the upshot, is that she had kids. In that, you know, there's, she, see that kid is like sitting in that, you know, kitty chair. She has had them kind of stand up and sit back down in between repeatedly going to the A location, and then. It didn't, was much less likely to make the error and would reach the B location. Right? So in that moment, the sort of representation of the object was tied to its body position. Right, and just sort of disrupting that by just having the baby stand up and sit back down, kind of disrupted that association in their understanding, and then she could reach. You know, and then you could sort of reach and find it in the right location. Right, so this is something that until this demonstration, people would sort of wouldn't have thought that the child's understanding of something like object permanence would be so tied to their body. But that sort of demonstration is that all this early development. It has this kind of real embodied aspect to it. Things like this is why we can't upload our brains to the cloud anyway. I It's another issue, but yeah, our consciousness is embodied, unfortunately for some people. Right. So, what are, all right, so then these people say, you know, what are concepts, really? All right. So, Linda, these dynamic systems people. are kind of opposed. To the notion of there being concepts. So we're gonna talk, so after this, we're gonna talk all about abstract thinking and abstract concepts, but the people sort of focusing on, on these types of things think. Given that all this stuff is embodied and perceptual, there really isn't, we don't really don't have abstract knowledge, it's kind of an illusion. Right, so there's few she goes in the history of sort of Western thought, you know, think about the Enlightenment, you know, man as kind of rational, right? We're not tied to our, you know, the difference between man and beasts is that we're not tied to our, you know, emotions or our perceptions. We, we can, we can do math, we can like think, you know, beyond our experience. Right. Dynamic systems, people kind of say this is kind of an illusion. Uh, all of what we were thinking is entirely tied to our perceptual and motor experience in the, in the sort of spatial world. Um So And they criticized PS and one member of PSA according to Vygotsky and Chomsky, didn't properly explain the development of the semiotic function, right? The PSA was trying to explain how abstract symbolic representations came from sensory motor exploration, and the dynamic Simpson people said the reason why he failed to do it is because there's no such thing as abstract symbolic representations, really. And we all are kind of sensory motor exploration all the way down and up. So, they sort of think that even adults don't really have this type of thinking that Page in, in the, in the Western tradition sorts of things. Now, you don't have to go, this is a very far leap from their data on like motor control and how it affects infant knowledge. So there are other people sort of arguing for this stake. We're, we're not go totally into it and we're just gonna sort of use the evidence that they have to build up what we can be confident about in sort of early knowledge. But I just wanna let you know that the people who kind of write this way, kind of deny lots of things that we take that we might otherwise take for granted in cognitive, in cognitive science. So, so how, but how do they explain how this works? Children are sensitive statistical contingencies in action and perception. So they think intelligence, intelligent behavior is sort of an emergent property from action and perception systems interacting with each other and being integrated together. Children are sensitive to physicalal contingencies in action and perception, and knowledge grows in the sensory motor exploration of the world. And in this sense, this is, so far, this is quite consistent with Page. However, then other networks, they often talk about brain networks, exist to integrate multi-sensory information and then feedback down to individual uh modalities. So, you know, you, you sort of might be integrating act, you know, vision and hearing and touching together, but then also their integration will feedback to change how you might see things and feel things and hear things. Then operating at this higher level of multi-sensory integration, new higher order correlations can be formed. You could at this, when you integrate all these things, you can start noticing things about the world via this integration that you couldn't sort of notice looking at different modalities individually. And this higher level construction is the key to human intelligence. This is pretty, uh, there are minor differences between the Smith view of this and the Cohen and Cashian view of this, but for our sort of purposes, they're in lockstep about how, if you remember, I was talking about the con contrasting the constructivist with the nativists, and the constructivist is all about this kind of piecemeal, uh, Constructed knowledge where each sort of level of information processing sort of subsumes some lower level. So how might this work in the brain? So that, so a lot of this, a lot of these theories will sort of use brain data to sort of reason, to sort of support these kind of ideas. So. I'll give you some examples of some of these multi-sensory integration in the brain. Word meanings, all right, so if you have, if you have a sort of basic semantic task and they get hog it and like, let's say you're putting kit, let's say you're putting people in FMRI and you're having them do some basic judgments about words, right? And if you read the word kick versus punch, you actually have different activations in the motor cortex. You don't actually doing these actions, you're just reading the actions, and it's, but it, but it seems to activate part of the motor cortex that controls your leg when you read the word kick, or when you read the word punch, it activates the part of the motor cortex that controls your hands. If you're reading words like canary that have very typical uh visual aspects associated with them, they're sort of similar activation in your visual cortex as if you had seen the color yellow when you're when you're reading words that are associated with those properties. So in that sense, these sort of meanings have these distributed representations across the brain with these different um relevant sensory uh modalities. However, there's also what is called a sort of multimodal hub in the interior temporal lobe where sort of all word meanings act are acti activate the interior temporal lobe. Right? Now, different words might activate different patterns in the different words activate different patterns in the interior temporal lobe, but it's still quite concentrated in that area. So there's sort of this multimodal hub in the interior temporal lobe, and then also multisensory activation of, you know, this sort of individual side, the sort of individual modalities being activated around the brain, and also this one, this one hub in the brain that's sort of integrating all these things into, into a sort of integration of word meaning. Further The highest level of integrative uh. Network is the is the most anterior part of the prefrontal cortex, also known as the frontal pole. This is an area that's most associated with fluid intelligence and abstract problem solving, such as an analogical reasoning. So let's say if you were sort of solving analogies like, or you have to recognize whether or not this was a sound analogy and this one is, and let's say a task, you sort of give people sound analogies or sort of unsound ones, you have to sort of make that judgment, you'll see. A lot of uh uh activation in the in the most frontal part of the prefrontal cortex. So, like, aspirin is to pain as muffler is to noise, right? So aspirin uh reduces pain, muffler reduces noise, so you might say that's a uh sound analogy. Right? Now, our anterior prefrontal cortex is actually the part of our brain that is sort of most distinct from other primates. Right, it is much bigger than the anterior, so also rodents don't have this area at all. So when you're doing sort of, when you're doing when you're doing rodent, uh, neuroscience, they don't have an equivalent of the anterior prefrontal cortex. And this area is the part of the prefrontal cortex that is the biggest in humans compared to other primates. So it's much bigger and also, it is much better connected to the rest of our brain than um. Than the version of it in other primates. So this seems to be very uh related to our key aspects of our intelligence. Right? So, when you're doing something like aspirin, it's the brain, it's muffler, it's the noise. You are looking at, um, you're sort of integrating while the, well, you're looking, OK, the relationship between these two concepts is the same as the relationship between these two contracts. So you're having to sort of integrate all these different meanings together to make sense of them. Right. And so this idea is that what our higher level thinking is, is just humans are much, so according to this dynamic systems idea, is that we're just sort of much better at kind of integrating our, our sort of perceptual input into sort of higher, higher level, sort of bigger, of like higher levels of construction, basically. Some people might call it abstraction, though they still think because it's so tied to our bodies, they want to resist calling it abstraction, these particular theorists. So All right, so that's sort of, you know, mature brain, let's go back to some, some more examples with infants and multi-sensory integration. So, so, we can go back to watching videos of babies. Right, so they're giving, so these are kids who are 2 month old who aren't very good yet at grabbing things. But it, but these researchers gave them sticky mittens. To help them lift objects. It's very exciting. So they, they kind of figure out, and then the basic finding from this research is they start inspecting objects more systematically. Because, so, one of the things that happens over the 1st 4 months of life is when you give a new object to an infant. They kind of go from looking at it kind of randomly. They just might sort of look at it in all these different ways to kind of having being much more systematic in how it looks at objects to sort of figure out what's going on with them. And one of the things that happens is that when they give them the sticky mittens, this kind of accelerates how systematically they're looking at the object. Right, so the idea is that there's this kind of feedback between their manual exploration and their visual exploration. So Oh sorry, the 1st 6 months, not just 1st 4 months, sorry. So sticky mittens are given to 2 month olds allow for better grasping of objects, leads to more mature visual inspection and oral exploration of objects. Basically, you kind of accelerate, you can get these 2-month-olds to start looking more like 6 month olds and how they explore objects by like helping them grasp things with these sticky mittens. So Here's another Why and Another example of the apparatusSPEAKER 7is called a visual cliff. One side of a plexiglass sheet is painted. The other side is transparent, creating the illusion of a big drop. Yeah, you were spinning your wheels down a little bit, weren't you? With the underneath illumination, the child cannot see any reflection of himself. The glass surface is invisible. Come here, Cameron, look. Look, come in here. This is related to that seem to show any facialSPEAKER 1when they're first new to crawling, right, he, they're like not realizing the risk of falling through this clear thing. It's just kind of like, oh, all right, I can just go, like sort of similar to before how they haven't learned what they fall through and what they don't yet.SPEAKER 7Questions of fear. Come here, look. Oh, what a good boy you are. Here he comes. Come on. Oh, come here. And this baby, as you can see, he shows very little wariness of heights. As he crosses the deep side of the cliff to his father, Katie, but after a child has been crawling for about a month, a change occurs. Katie, what are you doing? You can crawl. Come here. This baby, called by her mother, would like to cross over. Come here. But she can't seem to make herself do it. A fear of heights has developed.SPEAKER 1But Right, so. So at first, when they're new to crawling, they'll they, they're, they'll, they'll walk to their crawling parent across the clear surface. However, when then after they crawl a little bit and they start to realize that like if there's not something there, they'll fall over, they then won't get themselves to crawl across the visual clip because it looks like nothing's there. Right. However, they then get over that more through their increased experience handling objects, especially if they have properties like being clear. Right, so you kind of have this developing conceptual knowledge of the nature of how they can move around and also the nature of objects and different types of properties they have. They are all kind of working together in this first year of life. They try to have the mothers look really encouraging regard regardless. Right, that's the, right, that's the thing, like the like the mom's like, hey, come here, come here. And then she's just like, ah, she's like, like they're trying, you know, the baby sort of wants to and starts going, and you can see like, in here, she's like kind of over it, right? So she's kinda, so you might think like, you might as well keep going at this point cause you already have evidence that like, you can balance yourself cause her hand's on the glass part right here, but then like can't get herself to go across any further cause she looks down and I was like, that's, I'm gonna drop. When was that?SPEAKER 0Yeah Like when he Right, but that would be in.SPEAKER 1But in this case, they, the, the mother's always happy. Right? Cause if, because if, if this, right, cause that way it's sort of showing that even with that cue, they won't do it without at this phase in this, at this point in development. Well, it depends where it is, right? So, you know, you're just looking at different things, right? So if you're looking at, if they're early crawlers, right, and they haven't developed this sort of caution about this, then they're gonna maybe just use the mother's cue, right? But if you have, if you have more experience, then you, that might override their use of that cue. No, yeah. Yeah. Well Uh Excuse me, I was just gonna give you this example of nice multi-sensory object understanding, but for some reason now, X has determined it is sensitive content. Maybe because it's a weird, like, anti-COVID thing, but basically, it's just a little baby going around pretending everything, like thinking everything is a hand sanitation, um. Like things. So it's like putting his hand under like every square and like doing this, you know, this was like a video in early 2020 and was being COVID safe. But now, Anyway, you, if you have an X account, feel free to click on it and watch the video, but I, I'd have to log in here anyway. But anyway, it was just, you know, it's like, if you're one year old and it's 2020, you just think everything is a hand sanitation station. Right. Uh. Alright, so Now, all those examples where we're kind of just sort of showing you these general patterns. We're doing, we're all about multi-sensory integration. I'm gonna sort of now show you now the, the sort of view of those. Uh, how we do that is through statistical-driven learning. Basically, basically meaning that all the types of statistics and associate, you know, what often that means is like these types of things co-occur with these other types of things. This type of thing in the world probabilistically happens before this other kind of thing in the world. And all these ismic system models sort of assumes that children are kind of sensitive to the statistics of their experience. Right. And all those examples so far are these kind of nice, uh, you know, sort of, we're not really going through the graphs and them I'm sort of showing these examples, but now I'm gonna show you some just in the visual domain of how children are sensitive to statistical information to sort of show you the the the pattern that the constructivist accounts predict. All right. So We're a particular look about learning particular object categories, right? So, so we're, we're talking about before was kind of object knowledge kind of generally, like objects, you know, exist and uh even when we're not looking at them, right? Those types of object permanence ideas, but you also are constantly learning about specific objects, right, and their particular properties. And so when people have sort of, we're looking at this learning, how people are learning about the statistics of object categories, to sort of build their knowledge of the world. So objects are typically categorized on their common features, you could say. Like birds have wings, beaks, feathers and fly. And one thing that's true about objects, categories is that features are correlated across objects, right? So across all objects in the world, things that have beaks tend to also have wings and feathers. Right, it's not true of everything, right? But bing, but beaks, wings, and feathers tend to sort of go together in the objects of the world. And so one of the things that the people that these sort of constructivists were looking at, because so many of these theories are based on this idea that they're, that they, that were infants are tracking the statistics of their experience, you wanna look, OK, can we actually look at future correlations as a kind of example of, um, of statistical learning? Can, can, can infants actually be sensitive to kind of subtle statistical relationships in the world? And can we show that in a single, uh, laboratory session? So Younger and Cohen pioneered this research. This is research that's discussed in that Cohen and Cashin uh chat review chapter. And now to remind you, again, now this is the Kohen and Cassian language, you should see very clear correspondence with that dynamic systems language because they're really quite related theories. But so, right, the idea again is that there's domain general information processing system that detects low-level feature information like color and motion. Higher level units are formed from the relationships among these. Then learning is hierarchical and constructive. All right. Now here's a kind of new aspect of this, right, so much like I was saying, there's multi-sensory integration where you're picking up larger sort of chunks of information by understanding how they connect. Same type of idea here, except there's now added this particular prediction where infants will try to use their highest level units to interpret their environment. If they can put things together, they will. However, if their cognitive system is overloaded. They may revert back to a lower level of processing. While incorporating new information. Right, so this pattern, we're not, we're gonna talk about this pattern in 3, and today we're gonna look at 3 different examples of this pattern. So detecting feature correlations. Now, Nigero in 1983. For, they look, they, now again, some of these older studies, the, the graphics aren't that impressive. But this is looking at, this is now using habituation studies. Right? So a lot of those other studies with, with a lot of the embodied studies, they don't really have the same type of habituation structure because they're just, it doesn't really make sense in the same way, like, I'm just gonna have them crawl up this ramp, like, you know, we're like, oh, I'm gonna see if they're gonna keep on reaching for this object as the gap gets bigger. It doesn't really make sense to have that same type of habituation structure that it's more just like, I'm gonna put them in this, I'm gonna put them in this like bouncy thing and see how long it takes them to bounce up and down. Right. But here we're going back to habituation methods. Now, These, these creatures. These are, there's little line drawings. So some, these are these little line drawings of these sort of fictional animals that have different feet, different legs, different ears, different tails, different bodies. So for example, it could have like feet that are hoofs, it could have four legs, it could have two legs, it could have pointy ears, it could have round ears, it could have a fluffy tail, it could have a very long tail, it could have a body kind of like a giraffe, it could have a body like another animal, right? So all these different. You know, animals are just gonna sort of mishmash of different parts. Right? One of the things that they showed was in this thing we're like, OK, how about let's let's manipulate this feature correlation. They're like, OK, every time the hoof, every time there's hoof feet, it always occurs with a giraffe type body, right? A different type of foot, you know, might always co-occur with a different kind of body. But so basically these types of features go together. Uh, well, let's give you, hold on, let me just show you an example of what these things kind of look like, right? These are just these little sort of line drawings, different types of, see different numbers of legs, different types of tails, different types of bodies, different types of ears. So a test, so they get a whole bunch of, they're habituated to a whole bunch of these drawings, and in these drawings, there's a few of these different correlations that are maintained, like hoof feet always go with draft bodies, even if the other things are varying and a, and a few, and multiple things like that. At test, they see 3 novel, they see 3. Um, novel animals. Of these drawings Two of them have familiar features, so types of hoof, types of feet, types of legs, types of things they've all seen before. They've all seen all the pieces before. And one of them also preserves the correlation. So it might, so it has, so this one, for example, would have a hoof, if it had a hoof foot, it would also have a draft body. So it has new and other features might have they've never seen in combination before, but the combinations they've seen before are being maintained. Another one would be familiar features, but now violates the correlation, so they've seen, so now it's a hooffoot with like a different kind of body. So they've seen those features before, but never in that combination. Or novel features are which is totally new, just like a totally new animal with a bunch of different heads and body shapes and feet shaped that it has never seen before. Alright, so what might it look like? So I'm sure you can all predict that children should all find number 3 novel regardless of what they've learned. Right? If they've kind of, if they've habituated, the novel thing should be uh novel. All right, so what do you think the pattern would look like? I guess I was asked if anyone wants to raise their hand. If they have learned the future correlations, what do you think they would, what do you think would happen? Let's say they've learned, they like, they learned that like giraffe bodies are always going with hoof feet. What might they find novel, what would they find? Not novel. I think that Violates Right, exactly, yes. So, so every, exactly, so if they've, if they've paid attention to it at all, they should find number one familiar regardless, right? Familiar features, and it preserves the correlation. So that one should be familiar regardless, and remember that means looking at it for a short period of time, right? Number 3, they should find novel regardless, because it's completely new. The key thing is what do they do with number 2. Right? It's familiar features, but it violates the correlations. So if they think that's novel, that suggests they learn the correlations. If they think it's familiar, that suggests they've just learned the features but not the correlations. Again, this is habituation research, there's a lot of knots. And the cognitive load of these sentences is high. I appreciate that. Right? We also can use even more jargony terms, so the novel features should elicit dishabituation, as in should look longer at it. If infants learn the feature correlations, then the uncorrelated exemplar should also elicit dishabituate, right? So, so we're calling it number 2, we're calling, it's being called U for uncorrelated. All right, so the way this, this, this paper, you have to have these letters because that's how their graphs are labeled, right? So they have the uncorrelated, which is familiar features, but not using the familiar correlations, and correlated, which is using the familiar features and maintaining the correlations, and novel is totally novel. All right, so let's look at the data. Now this is fixation time for trial. For some weird reason, the, the, the X axis is like each number represents two trials. Why they didn't just do 2468, rather than like one first pair, second pair, third pair, 4th pair, I don't know. But that's what they did. So it's like, so this is the habituation and then at test, the UN and the C, right? So the U is the uncorrelated, the N is the novel, and the C is the correlated. All right. Now, at 10 months of age, right, so let's now look at the 10 month olds. The 10 month olds are habituate. And then, they, they stay habituated to. The correlated example, the totally familiar thing, they stay, right, and they, they think the uncorrelated and the novel are novel. That suggests that the 10 month olds learned the correlations, because when you violate the correlations, they think it's novel. Here, the 4 and 7 month olds look the same as each other, so they were combined, and they showed the different pattern, right? If you look at, now C and N isn't the same for both for all age groups, right? C is familiar, low-looking time, N is novel, high-looking time, but now the uncorrelated is treated as familiar. Right? So, so these are the 10 month olds are learning the correlations, but the 4 and 7 month olds are not learning the correlations. So this is that pattern where the, the sort of the, as what's developing in their sort of information processing system is that they're getting better at sort of tracking these statistics. The older infants have the capacity to sort of, to sort of track these correlations in a way that the younger infants cannot. In this particular laboratory demonstration, it doesn't necessarily mean what's happening out in the world, but you're still sort of seeing this improvement in Statistical tracking in their uh. Throughout, you know, in these few months difference. All right, so there's a few other. Um, Patterns here. So, a few other studies all looking at the same thing. Basically what this next one is doing is that they're trying to make it a little bit easier. So All 3 ft, so before there were 4 features that they had to keep track of, and 2 of the 4 features were like correlated, but now there's like fewer features that are that are sort of varying, and they're sort of the correlations are sort of stronger. And this one is just looking at 4 month olds and 7 month olds, uh. Right, why did I say That 471. Well, yeah, sorry, for experiment one, we're just looking at 4 month olds and 7 month olds. Same tests as before. All right, because we already know the 10 month olds can do it. So we're just looking at 4 and 7 month olds now. Again, same, same thing. Now, again, they're now changing the graph a little bit, how they're, how they're looking at it, but now, look, the 4 month olds. Only show the novelty preference to the novel features. This is the same as they just did. The correlated and uncorrelated are low, and the novel looking time is high. The 4 month olds do not learn the correlation. Here, the 7 month olds. Show a novelty preference to both the uncorrelated and the novel test examples. So now when they've made it easier to track the correlations, the seven month olds are doing it. Right, so the seven month olds are sort of doing the things that 10 month olds did in the last study, because it kind of made it easier to track. All right. So see here, the U and the N are up high, and the C is low. Yeah. Oh, for this study? So, sorry, so, so it was fewer features that vary. Uh, so 3 features, so rather than having 4 features, like, I just, I didn't show you what they looked like. They still look kind of like this, but so here are 4 different things are varying across the animals, their head, their tail, their body, their feet, and this one it was just 3 of those, so there were fewer dimensions. Yeah, yeah, there's just fewer things to learn. Yeah, exactly. There are fewer things to learn and all three features were kind of rela were that were varying were also perfectly varying sort of with each other. Right, so basically you had fewer things to learn this time and the 7 month olds can learn it. The 4-month-olds still couldn't, but the 7 month olds now could. In the stimuli or in the So the 7 month olds here had the same pattern as the 4 month olds in the last one. So the 7 month olds last time had the pattern of the 4 month olds this time, right? Where they had the correlated and the uncorrelated was seen as familiar, and then only the novel was seen as novel, right? So here, right, you have the uncorrelated, the ones that violate the correlations. The 7 month olds here are showing a novelty preference to violating to the example that it violates the correlations. While last time, they didn't show a novelty preference to that. They thought violating the correlations was familiar, wasn't novel to them because they didn't learn the correlations is the idea. Because there was sort of more stuff to keep track of to learn the correlate, like the correlation, there was like 4, there was like way more, there was way more noise. Like this is a much, if you think of like signal to noise ratios, this one had a much sort of better signal to noise ratio where these, there's fewer variation, there's fewer sources of variation. And everything's correlating like perfectly with each other. The last time it was like 4 dimensions of variation, and not all of them were very, were correlated with each other. So you had to sort of keep track of all this different stuff and it wasn't all coming together as smoothly. So the 10 month olds could do it, but the 7 month olds couldn't. But now that it's sort of simpler, the 7 month olds can do it, the 4-month olds still can't. But critically, they're still showing a novelty preference to the totally new animals. So it's not like they're getting nothing from it. They're still the, the 4 month olds are still habituating. They're still learning, they're still remembering which features they've been exposed to, but they're just not learning which features co-occurred with the other features. So it's still overall going like, oh, I've seen that body before, I've seen that foot before, I've seen that tail before, but they're not noticing that these feet went with that tail. So it, it's pretty subtle, so it's kind of even surprising that you give, that they're even this sensitive to, right? These are these funny little, these are these little sket, you know, line drawings that aren't that perceptually rich. And, you know, they're just getting 10 trials of exposure to these different drawings. And uh, you know, in this case, the 7 month olds are kind of picking up on all these connections, right? So, so the, because the idea is that picking up on these types of correlations is sort of fundamental to how they're learning about everything. So, if the fact that you can get a seven month old to kind of show this in like a little mini lab demo, the idea is that this is evidence that they're out there doing this type of thing like all the time, right? They're kind of, you know, they're not that they're consciously saying, I'm gonna learn statistics, right? But they're just sort of being exposed to all of this stuff and they're, and all the patterns that exist in their exposure to stimuli is being tracked. And at least, and they're getting, at least they, and they're getting better at it as they get older. Right? So they're getting sort of better at tracking all of this stuff. Yeah, they're just learning like what they're, they're right, the 4 month olds aren't learning the connections between things, they're still remembering what they've been exposed to. So they're still learning, they're still remembering, I saw hoofs, I saw antlers, there's not remembering that hoofs went with antlers. Yes, yeah, I mean, these graphs don't, aren't great. I would not recommend anyone to have graphs, like they don't have error bars and stuff like that, but a lot of these older graphs just don't, don't sort of, it's harder to see that they're like significantly different and stuff with how that data is visualized. They ended up combined on that graph, they combined them because they look the same. Yeah, so right, so, so they measured that they, they collected the data separate, you know, they collected the data and they went, oh, the 4 month old and 7 month old, the data look, look identical, so we're gonna just put them on 11 graph. Yeah, which is, you know, something that You know, you gotta save pages. These used to actually be printed. Yeah, yeah, so Uh, Oh, I'm sorry, yeah, we'll get to take a break shortly. Now. This last one. They made it slightly harder. So, remember I told you that it was all about this sort of signal to noise ratio. Here. Two of the three features were correlated, but the third feature was sort of unconnected from co-occurring with the other two of the three. So if you're trying to learn all the connections between things, if one of them isn't connected to the other two, that might be kind of disrupting your ability to process how all three are connected. And this is where this last bit becomes important to go through this and I will relate this to the constructivist pattern shortly. All right, so again, 4 month olds. Only habituate only show a novelty preference to the novel animal. 10 month olds, again, show a novelty preference. To, uh, the uncorrelated and the novel, so that's the same as study one. Right? Now, the seven month olds don't habituate in this amount of time, and they don't sort of show anything. So this is now. They've now made it like slightly harder. It's not as hard as study 1, but it's slightly harder than study 2. And now the seven month olds are like struggling and they're not even habituating, like they're not even able to sort of process what's going on. Um, So after 12 habituation trials, for some reason the study capped the total number of trials at 12. Often it's 20, I don't know why they did that, but that's what they did. So they aren't done processing the stimuli yet, so they didn't habituate after 12 trials. So then, final study, they go, we're going to give them more than 12 trials. So they give them way more time to habituate. And the final thing that happens is If you go over here, the C and the U are both down at the bottom, so the 7 month olds. End up reverting to looking like 4 month olds. All right. So, so what happens is, so in the medium level of difficult, so the 7 month olds, when it was really difficult, just looked like 4 month olds. They didn't learn the correlations. When it made it really, really easy for them, they looked like 10 month olds, and they did learn, and that they did learn the correlations. Then there was like this medium level of difficulty and They took much longer to habituate and then eventually ended up looking like the 4 month old again, where they kind of failed to learn the correlations. Uh So, we're skipping one of the experiments with that paper cause it's not relevant to what we're saying. Um, so, they look like the 4 month olds, again, showing a familiarity, show, you know, showing no novelty preference to the correlated or uncorrelated test trials. Now I'll relate this to the principles, right? So infants construct units from lower level units. The infants tend to use the highest level units to interpret their environment. If the system gets overloaded, they revert to a lower level of processing while incorporating new information. Right? This is, and this matches this pattern. The 4 month olds don't learn the correlations, right? So the, the, the, the, the 4 month, so if you think about the correlations as a higher level of unit of representation, right? That's integrating information together, right? So the 4 month olds are only processing at the level of individual features, not their combinations. The 10-month-olds are learning the combinations of features. The 7 month olds can sort of learn the correlations in these very simple tasks. Right, it, it kind of looks like they're trying to learn the correlations and the tasks are a bit more complex, but they ultimately failed and reverted back to looking like 4 month olds. Right So this this is this kind of key pattern of this constructivist, of this neo-constructivist pattern where they're sort of trying to build the biggest chunks of information they can. They're trying to interpret the environment with the sort of biggest ways of integrating the information that they can, but, you know, depending on their age, they may not be able to do so, and they might go back to some lower level of processing. Uh oh. All right. Why don't we, uh Hm, how are we gonna, ah, we'll be all right. Why don't we, we can take a break here. Why not take a 5 minute break? All right.SPEAKER 0Last time um what's happening. Yeah There's no extra one, so you're saying that here there's 7. gold again, shoulder loading. What, what's 12356?SPEAKER 1That's the habitual, so that's the habituation fix. So, that's the same as before, yeah, yeah, no, that's all right. And, and for some reason it was a pairs of habituation trial. So it's like there's 12 habituation trials that says 123456 rather than 2468, 1012. I don't know why they did it that way.SPEAKER 0There's 2 in this one. Uh, it's just, I mean.SPEAKER 1I don't know why all you got to worry about that is that they didn't habituate.SPEAKER 0And yeah, so they, it's all the same. Yeah, but this one showed novelty, this one, so they didn't learn anything at all. Yeah, they didn't even habituate OK, and that's, that's interesting. That's one study, right? And then down here this is a different study.SPEAKER 1Yeah, so, so now they got more, now they got more time to it.SPEAKER 0insight from the last 7 months old went went forward. Yeah, what, what, what is this? Well, why is it 123 and then -321?SPEAKER 1So that's, so, so that, so yeah, I guess I should go through how all the graphs are labeled more, but so that, that is like the last three trials of habituation, so they gave them way more time to habituate.SPEAKER 0white Right.SPEAKER 1And so now they're just showing you the beginning of habituation and the end of habituation. Rather than showing you trial trial 1 through trial 12,SPEAKER 0halfway through arbitration 7 months old before, which is they're learning they're distinguishing, they give them more time to continue to on those same people and they actually get the worst. Well, it's the only worst.SPEAKER 1Because they've made the task harder, so it's not the same. So they whatever, so it was 3, they had 3. There were 3 features perfectly correlated when they succeeded, and this was only 2 of the 3 pictures of theSPEAKER 0features were correlated. yeah, yeah, yeah.SPEAKER 1So, so this is harder and so they couldn't quite do it.SPEAKER 0It doesn't make sense more time spent learning actually doesn't help. Well, yeah, right, yeah, exactly, because it was, it turnedSPEAKER 1out it was like beyond their capacity, so it was kind of like they, they were trying to learn. They have in that case they're habituating just as theSPEAKER 0features themselves. Then why in the first experimental they habituate the same way the story because that one it was almost like too hard for me. Yeah, it was like too hard for him to try but the fact that it took. to something. Doesn't that just like Yeah, I mean, right, it's hard to. Right, it shows that they were sensitive to something, right? If it's only taking way longer, it's almost like the same level, right? So we ended up with something why they learned it. But they couldn't, but they, but they couldn't like remember, but they maybe were, uh, might suggest that they were sensitive to noticing these connections but then couldn't like fully encode what connections were. They might be like, oh, there's something happening here. There's like some connect like, I mean, it's just sort of putting too much into their intention and they really can't, but it just kind of seem like it, right? It's they're putting too much into their intentions of like what they're trying to do. But it's like they could kind of get, it's like if it's, if it's a really noisy signal you're like I'm not even gonna try to, right? But if it's like if there's like some signal in there like oh there's like something happening, I'm gonna like try to see if there's a pattern I'm gonna try to figure out the pattern, but they might go shit, I couldn't actually find the pattern, so I'm like giving up and like Jack was learning to sing and that. they're overloaded, yeah, and then they're like, oh, I'm just gonna like, I'm just sick of looking at these pictures. Yeah, yeah. I can't do it. Oh, I so rather than. Yeah, I mean, it's, it's hard to get, you have, there's, there's so much noise in the situation. I think it gets, they have like a really precise shape. And you any individual. It's kind of jiggling around a bunch, so like fitting those different types of because then we have like quadratic curves, and we have like the different types of functions. There's not fit the curve there. There's all kinds of reasons why it's hard to fit into the curves to function, you know, like, oh this is the function that we think is the situation. But like the sort of more complex the function that there's there's a way you can like overfit the data, you know what I mean and so it's so people tend to just use these people tend to just use linear functions even though probably it's not really linear, you know what I mean, but you still have to like finally pattern the data but still you have to get like. A lot of data to have like a proper like here's how the exact price. I I I guess I have a good thing to do is say easy hard. It's so normal. those are the number of things that, yeah, so I guess that's true. I guess I have to say which is the, but you kind of have to think about, yeah, that, that'sSPEAKER 1true, but that would be, that would be a helpful, that would be a helpful thing to add. Sorry, we gotta.SPEAKER 0It's all because it's like a. And then the first one is like. First one is 5. Uh She plays baseball.SPEAKER 1Hi everyone, sorry, I got to uh go in here. Yeah, there might be too much in this double lecture, but we'll cut out some stuff next time to make up for it. Oh yeah, yeah. Oh. Oh, sure.SPEAKER 0Pretty good What are the two lines?SPEAKER 1Yeah, why? Yeah, I, I'm always just kind of like, don't worry about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's true, right? If you want to go into the paper, we can, but just kind of the point is just like, it's a flat habituation line, yeah. All right, So now we're gonna. Look at how words play a thing into this. So word learning. So we're talking about these object concepts. Right? Word learning is sort of building on this, on this systematic, on, on this ability, right? So a larger portion of the, of the child's 1st 100 words refer to categories where common shape is the most critical feature. Alright, so, so we're looking at how kids are learning about objects through all these statistics, but it turns out for words, particularly, a whole lot of words refer to categories based on shape. And kids sort of figure that out. Right, so, so if you have balls have the same shape, trucks all kind of the same shape as other trucks, forks kind of all have the same shape as other forks, you know, all these objects roughly have the same shape as each other. So when they start learning nouns, they start realizing, oh, I get this word game. Words are about objects that like have the same shape. So let's show you how might you test for that. All right. So they tested for it by you, you get, you have a, so a lot of word that now we're, now look at this, is we're going to start having 18 month olds and now the data is going to be really easy to interpret. Cause you can just, now we're in the age of pointing and listening, so that's exciting. So You have, so let's say you have this, you, you show like a torch. Now, now these are those little drawings, but this would be a three-dimensional object in the study. Again, you know, there'll be photos and more contemporary work. But here it's a little like 2-inch square blue wooden thing in this shape. And this thing is like diameter, 2.5 inches diameter, brown, what, you know. So these things have a certain size, certain shape, certain texture, certain color. Uh, this thing's, you just go, hey, look at this, this thing's a dax. Right? You tell the kid, this is a dax. They're like, all right. Then you start, so you can label one object, then you start showing them different objects that are similar to the object you labeled, but differ in slightly different ways, right? So you can make it bigger. Here's a, now you, now you show them another one and it's big. Another one and it's small. Or it can be a different texture, right? Like this one's made of wood, this one's made of cloth, this one's made of sponge. Or you can change the shape. You can sort of bend it and make it so it's not the same shape anymore. All right. And so each time you show them one of these variants, you say, is this a DX? Is this one also a DX? How about this one? Is this one a DAX? And they say like, yes or no. All right. Now, What it, what it means for them to have a shape bias is when the size changes or the texture changes, they say, yes, that's still a dax, right? It's a bigger one, it's a smaller one, it's a softer one, it's a harder one, it's still a dax. But now if it changes the shape, right, you now you bend it, so it's no longer that shape, it's now a different shape, they go, that's not a dax anymore. Right? And so if the kids show that pattern, they have a shape bias. They think the word, that, that, you know, you label this thing Dax, it has a shape, it has a size, it has a texture, it has a color. But what do they think Dax means, right? They got a single example, and they think, oh, it means things of that shape. Alright. But not just that, the important thing to look at here is how many words these kids know. So this is going into a, so this is this study from 2004, took 8, 18 month olds in the lab. And gave him this type of test. All right. And then, but also had parents fill out vocabulary size questionnaires. All right. And what you're saying is, you know, Here when they're generalizing, when things share the same shape, share the same color, share the same material on the graph on the right, slightly different than the original study on the left. There's no size change, there's just color, material and shape change. And what you're seeing is that the kids who know over 50 words are showing a very strong shape bias. So they are generalizing as long as the shape stays the same, and they're not, that means they're generalizing, they're applying, this is a DAX, that's also a DAX. They're applying the word DAX. To things that share the same shape, but don't share the other same stuff. When Um, Uh, you know, like when they have at least 50 words, the kids with fewer than 50 words don't show the same strong bias towards shape. So the idea here is that the kids who are learning more words have figured out that words mean categories that have the same shape. Right. Now, you might be noticing that doesn't really work for that many words. It works for like object nouns, right? It doesn't work for verbs, right? Like running versus flying, and that's not the difference in shape, it doesn't make any sense, right? The same animals, the same shape can do those, right? Or whatever, breaking versus kicking, those aren't different shapes, it doesn't make any sense, right? So there's lots of words that. Don't have to do with shape, but early vocabularies are very much dominated by nouns that are clearly referring to like objects, right, not even nouns like friend. Right, right, as much, right? That's an object that's about like a social relationship, but like things like truck. Right? Words like that where it's like, it's a the word is defined by like the kind of object it is. It's very early on and it's very sort of when kids are first learning words, a lot, you know, they know, they'll say, they know up to mean like pick me up and mommy and daddy, you know, a handful of things. But in their first few 100 words, objects, nouns for like concrete objects are very prevalent. And this helped, and then they figure out the shape bias to help them. Now how does this work? How does this develop and related to this. So step one, the assumption is they hear a bunch of words and they're around a bunch of objects, cup, ball, for example. Step 2 They might, then they go, oh, all the different things that I heard the word cup with all share the same shape. All the different things that I've heard the word ball around all share the same shape. Balls are ball shaped, cups are cup shaped. Step 3, well, if cups are cup-shaped and balls are all round, then whatever word is whatever shape, whatever that word shape is, right? So I learned a new word. Right, so then you sort of realize there's this generalization. This is what I mean by a higher, higher-order correlation, right? This is a pattern at the level of words, not just, you know, so, so the patterns in the world are like all these cups of the same shape. But then you might notice, oh, the words have patterns in them too, right? Cups are all, all these different words all refer to categories that share shape. All right. Scissors are scissors shaped, tractors are tractor shaped, chickens are chicken shaped, right? So, basically the idea is that the last step is they're ready to learn words much faster. I hear the word tractor, I bet a tractor means everything that has that shape. I hear the word scissors, I bet a scissor is everything that has that scissor shape, right? So they notice that correlation and that accelerates their word learning. And this is the this is the sort of explanation for how this sort of 1st 100 words gets kind of faster is when kids sort of recognize this as a general pattern. Right? Of course Now, this doesn't go so far, right? So for example, there's other systematic connections besides shape. So for example, natural kinds versus artifacts have different roles for texture, right? So natural, natural things, texture matters, right? So, a four-legged thing with a hair, so compare a four-legged thing with a head and a tail, that's spiky versus furry. Right? That kind of matters what type of thing it is, right? Like a lizard versus like a cat, right? Their shapes are roughly similar, but their textures are very different, right? But compare that to like an artifact, right, with a wooden hammer and like a rubber hammer, right? They're still both hammers. Right, so, you know, so, so they might learn that texture is important for, uh, some kinds of words, but not so important for other kinds of words. I'm just sort of give you an example, you know, so pretty quickly, there's other stuff to pay attention to besides shape, but this like development of the shape bias helps them get going in learning words, and then they kind of can expand the kinds of correlations that they are sensitive to. Now, So again, these dynamic systems people and statistics think this scales up to kind of explain everything. And I'll give you an example. So they think these types of statistical processes, right? Learning the statistics can explain all of human thought. And one thing they might refer to is something like chat GPT. So chat GPT is, there is no access. Chat GPT does not know what anything looks like, does not know what anything sounds like. It has no direct perceptual experience. Everything it does is based on word statistics, right? Word, it's all based on what words co-occur with other words. It can learn that from words directly. Now, those words might co-occur with other words because of what the world is like, but it doesn't need to know that the world is like that. It can just learn it directly from the language statistics. Right? And so, the way these theories sort of work, and we're talking about sort of statistics at different levels of abstraction, right? They're sort of saying, oh, when we're doing what looks like abstract thought, we're just doing language statistics, much like kids are doing statistics about object features or whatever, you can get to all of higher level thinking with just statistical processes. We're not gonna sort of evaluate that. I'm just gonna let you know that that's how this theory, you know, this theory that this is the same theories that are like, the babies are sitting up and they're sitting down, it's changing their object concept, right? So how are they getting from sensory in action to abstract human thinking, and they're doing it via the statistical processes in language is how their kind of theory works. All right, is that, again, you, you have these statistics of these different levels of integration. And now they, they weren't, they're not gonna say chat GPT works exactly the way human mind does, but it's evidence that the statistics of at the language, at the level of language devoid from these other levels can alone give you a whole lot of stuff. All right, so multi summary of multisensory integration. Infants build object concepts through learning correlations of features within a sensory modality and across modalities through connected action perception systems. Right, you guys familiar with modality, right? Modality is like seeing, hearing, touching. Right. There is construction of hierarchical networks with feedback across levels of the hierarchy, right? So that feedback, right? This is inspired by brain structure that we sort of talked about. These action perception links support early word learning, but then systematic language use, feedback and accelerate action perception category learning, right? So that's in the. In the shape bias development, right, the action perception links and early word learning, and then the systematic language, systematic language use, right, is that these words are referred to categories defined by the same type of feature, and then that accelerates how quickly they can go back and learn about those categories in the world. That makes sense. All of that, how all of this summarizes all of the data that we saw. So that's there is the task is like, these theories is trying to explain all that kind of. Data Whoop All right, now this next one we'll, we'll finish, we'll still do the first half of this time and then the second half next time. We're gonna, we're just gonna continue showing you the same patterns. So it's two more examples of the same kind of pattern that we just went through. The same kind of pattern of building up higher levels of representation from lower levels of representation. We're just trying to give you evidence that this is how this works by giving you multiple examples of this, you know, this theory is not just these theories of information processing. They'll just have like one example to look at. They're finding these commonalities and these developmental patterns across different. Things Um Well, this is actually more relevant for the next one. But yeah, yeah, so, so we're now we're getting into abstract thinking, abstract concepts, going away from just objects and perception. We're going to some more level of abstract thinking, and these papers were relevant for this time and next week. All right. So what is the world made of? So One way of doing it is that there's basically a bunch of objects in the world, and then there are the relations among the objects.