 All right, we can look around here, we see lots of objects, and there's also, you know, we, you should look around the room, there's a whole lot of objects. They're also in relation to one another, right? The, you know, they're to the left, they're spatially arranged, they're physical arrangements, right? Those things are like holding up the lights, right? There with whatever those, I don't know what do you call those. Whatever, you know, if I had names for them, that would help. Uh, right, but the idea is that objects, so this idea is that objects are perceptually cohesive, stable. So we've been focusing a lot on learning about objects, right? The shape bias is all about object categories. Object, everything so far has been about objects. Now, how, so the point is that a lot of things that we think about are actually the relationships between objects. However, it's much harder to say directly perceive them. They're dynamic and unstable. Right, so the relationship between me and this desk can change as I move around. Right, but that me, I stay the same, the death stays the same, but our relationship changes. So many of you, here's one example of a kind of spatial relationship. Or type of other types of relationships between there, right? So you guys have seen these launching events before? Really just the first, right, so. On that first one, right, people don't perceive this as the red ball causing the blue ball to move, but the second one, it does look like it, right? That looks like the, the red ball is causing the blue ball to move. I mean, then the, the chasing one is weird, but That one looks like you're like, oh, it's chasing, and they're just, you know, circles, right? So the first one. Right? Even though the spatial relationships are the same between the two. If the blue ball doesn't start moving the second the red ball touches it. You don't see the causation. Right, so we perceive a causal, we, we, when we're looking at balls knocking into each other, we might perceive a causal relationship, we might not, you know, the relationship, so when you say the relationships in the red ball and blue ball are causal or non-causal in their relationship to their both their movements, right? But our perception system seems to be set up to infer these types of relationships to each other, between each other. Now, One of the things that we're looking at now in infancy is can infants learn relationships? And generalize these relations across, so let's, so much like I remember last time I was talking about how the highest sort of level of thinking in the brain has to do with analogy, and analogy is related to finding common relationships across sets of objects. And now we're gonna look at that in young infants. Can young infants identify when the common set of relationships are maintained across different objects? Right, cause if it's, if it's, if you're just changing the relationship between two objects, you don't really know what it is that they represent relations, you know, because infants represent relationships independent of the objects that exist in those relationships. So the one fundamental relation is the identity relation when two things are the same. Right, so. If you give this test, pretty much any animal will solve, will say, you have to, you know, not use words, but if you have sort of, if you, if you basically said, if you basically reward animals for indicating when two things are the same. Any, basically all animals would be like fine, I mean, or vertebrates at least. I, I don't know, lots of insects, everything, I don't know, maybe not a sponge, I'd be able to perceive it somehow, but anything with like a visual input. Anything I can see will be like A is more like B. Then A is like C. However, let's say now what's in common is sameness rather than. The perceptual thing itself, right? So A is more like C here because A has two of the same things, and so the, the relationship of the two objects in A is one of sameness, and the relationship between objects and C is one of sameness, right? While B, there is a relationship of difference between the two objects. It is extremely hard to get any non-humans to show this ability. Right. So this fundamental, so, so the idea is that one of the things that makes us, again, the humans different than other animals is our ability to represent the relationships between objects independently from the objects themselves. Alright. And so that's why because it seems to be a human, even if you can get some animals to kind of do it, the degree to which they can do it is, it's much, much, much harder. It's, they're very bad at this compared to humans. Humans are very good at this. But, so, OK, so given that this seems to be related to the key things that that humans can do that no other animals can do, people are interested in infant's ability to start doing this. And so when I say abstract, so, so when I say things like abstract thinking, anytime almost I'm saying I'm almost always referring to something like that's relational, where there are common relationships between things rather than common. Particular perceptual features, right? There's no particular perceptual feature that's CNA, I mean, it's blue, but like that's true of B2, right? So, you know, but in theory, they did that didn't have to be blue, right? The sameness doesn't have any particular perceptual feature. It's just the features that are the same. All right, let's talk about these principles again. Hopefully, if I give you lots of examples, it'll make, it'll make sense. So, innate domain general information, again, there's this innate domain general information processing system that detects lower-level feature information. Higher level units are formed from relationships among these. High-level units formed in these units, learning is hierarchical and constructive. Infants tend to use the highest level units to interpret their environment. If system gets overloaded, revert to lower level processing or incorporating new information. Again, last time that was the 7 month old. We were talking about the 7 month olds in that case who were sort of trying to interpret the world in terms of correlations, but then uh could or couldn't based on the difficulty of it. All right, now this, now, now this study. Here, the, the higher level of information is the relationship of sameness or difference, and the lower level of information is the particular objects. Right, that's sort of, that's analogous to the higher level information being the correlations between the features and the lower level information being the particular features that we were just talking about in the last study. All right, so how do you look at this? So I've, how, how do we test this, right? So the way you test this is. Will they be, will they find, you know, a new pair of objects? Right, but in the familiar relation, will they, will they find that? Novel or familiar. All right, so here, they're familiarizing, here they're being familiarized to an individual set of objects. Right, so here's 2, so they're, they're seeing 2 goldfish, 2 goldfish, 2 goldfish, or a little crocodile and a pig, right? So 2 goldfish are showing sameness, and crocodile and pig are showing difference. Right? Then at the test, they're showed, right, the same objects that they've already seen before in the same relation that they've seen before, that they've seen before, or sort of, or in the other relation, right, with new objects. So, let's look at this graph. This is a novelty preference score, so this is now, so this is, this is now just a relative score where they're looking at the sort of new thing versus the old thing compared to each other. So all these papers are a slightly different way of representing the data. Right, so here, Right, oh yeah, so 0.5 means looking to the sort of new thing, the, the familiar thing and the novel thing equally. Right? So here, old versus new. Refers to the sets of objects, so like objects they've seen before are old and objects they haven't seen before are new. All right. So they're familiarized the same. Here and they Uh, sorry, so here they're familiarize the same, and here the novelty preference score is they're, they're looking at the old objects. In the familiar relation of same or the old objects in the Novel relation of different. So basically what you have to get out of this is that they actually don't systematically show any generalization from no, to the new objects, right? So here, look, so just focus on on the new objects, right? They're showing no novelty preference to different for the new objects, right? They don't care that the new objects are in a familiar relation or a novel relation. That's what, that's what's important. All right, they're like, when it's an old object. Sure, they, they might like show some novelty, but when it's an old object, you don't know if it's because like, The objects are now different or The, uh, relation is different. Now, this isn't helpful because it's not all old for the same people, right? Cause this is like, some people saw that, some people saw that, these are being called old. Sorry, uh, basically just focus on the new stuff. They're not generalizing, cause you'd have to, you'd have to probably read through the whole paper, sign the whole paper. All that really matters here is they're not generalizing, right? So look at the new ones, right? They're not showing any novelty preference to new sets of objects. So they're being familiarized to uh one set of objects. And they're getting new sets of objects in these relations, and they're not sort of generalizing. They're not showing a novelty preference. All right This next, so they decided to make it even more complicated. So here they, they were habitu, but here they're familiarized with only a single pair, right? So they're familiarized with only one pair. It was just like 2 goldfish, 2 goldfish, 2 goldfish, 2 goldfish. It wasn't 2 goldfish, 2 crocodiles, 2 pigs, right? There was no, there was no, there was no pattern to sort of abstract from. It was just 2 goldfish over and over again. Right? And when that was the case, there was no sign that they were generalizing in any systematic way. Yeah, Yeah, exactly, yeah. Yeah Well, it'll be worth explaining this next trial, this next one in more detail because more interesting things happen here. So it'll be worth going through these graphs a bit more. So here, 4 pairs of objects during familiarization. All right, so now, However, They got, so there's a complicated thing. So, but in the waiting room before they do the study. They were given A bunch of different objects. All right. They play, they had a chance to play with the objects. This is the object experience time. They're playing with the objects in the waiting room. Then they go to habituation. Some of those objects are now were shown to them from the object experience. Some of those objects are shown to them during habituation, and some of those objects are not shown to them during habituation. All right. Then at test They get objects that they played with in the waiting room. Objects they played with in the rating room and also a part of habituation. Then also objects they've never seen before. In addition, they get all 3, so, so here there's 6, you can see there's 6 key sort of tests, well. So there's 6 important things for these test trials, right? There's the and then there's the one that was in the relationship they saw before, they habituate the same. And then that's the same. The habituates are different and this side's different. So it's like, do they prefer to look at a pair of objects showing sameness and a pair of objects showing difference. Depending on what they habituated to and how familiar the objects were. Alright, so here's the habituation. They all habituate. Hab this is people habituate the same, people habituate to different. Then they're looking at a test. Then so novel relation. If they habituate the same, novel relation is different. If the habituates a different, novel relation is the same. Yeah, yeah, 3 from habituating, right? So you remember how habituation is defined by uh 50% looking time up since you, since the beginning. So those are the last 3 trials. So rather than showing you like all 20 trials, they're just showing you the 1st 3 trials of habituation and the last 3 trials of habituation. So -3, like counting down to the end of habituation. Does that make sense? So there's a bunch of trials in between there. All right. So what are we seeing here? So what we're seeing is Generalizing across all kinds of test trials, they all prefer to look at the the objects in the novel relation. Compared to objects in the familiar relation, suggesting they learn the relation. Right? They're showing that the difference between novel relation and familiar relation is significant, suggesting they habituated to these multiple pairs of objects, and they habituated to the, the sameness or differenceness. Of Those objects. Breaking it down into the objects that they. Had in the waiting room The ones they were in their habituation versus novel. Now here, particularly, they show the novelty preference for same versus different. When it's completely novel objects, right? So, so the completely novel objects, they still have a preference for 22, you know, if they habituate the same, two objects that are different compared to two objects that are the same, even though they're all novel objects, right? So they could be, they could just find everything novel, right? But no, even though it's novel objects, they think if they habituate the same, two novel objects that are the same. Is not that novel to them, but two novel objects that are different are novel because the difference is what's novel. They also show that pattern for the objects that they played with, but also habituated to, so this is like fully familiar objects. So that's like kind of like the least surprising one, right? This is just fully familiar versus fully, you know, they, they're just fully familiar and now you've changed the relationship that the fully familiar objects are in. They don't show it for the objects. That are They saw in the waiting room, but didn't get habituated to. They're like, oh cool, it's those guys again. Being distracted by being like reminded of them. Makes them like not demonstrate their relation knowledge. Does that make sense? They're like overloaded, they're like excited by the objects. I like these objects do not seem very exciting to you, but they are like, oh cool, it's those objects. Now, they don't, because the novel, now, now that's interesting is they find it cooler than the totally novel objects. Right? The totally novel objects. They show this this discrimination between same versus difference, but they don't show that discrimination when it's the object, the objects they played with, but didn't. Um, you know, habituate to. So this is an example of that getting overloaded thing, right? They're like excited about being reunited with these objects. They are focusing on the objects themselves and so aren't processing the relationship between them. Right, so the relationship between the objects is a higher level of representation. So that's kind of like the seven month olds not habituating to the harder, the medium hard correlations. It's shown in a different way, but it's the same kind of idea that they're kind of excited about this for some reason, and they're kind of overloaded and they don't show their, their relational ability. What? But this is like a meat, yeah, but it's like, yes. But they didn't habituate to these objects, right? So they were exposed to them. But then habituate to them. So they're like, oh yes, it's those things. They're like excited that they get to see those things they play with already. The totally novel ones they never had a chance to play with, so they may not care about them as much as these objects they've had a chance to play with before. Uh That was, how old were those kids? Those were 7 to 9 month olds. Now 3 month olds. Very young. Here, they had two experiments. One, so remember the last one, they had the first study, they had a single pair of objects. They did not learn the relation from a single pair of objects. When they had 4 pairs of objects, they did. In this paper, they're looking at 6 pairs of objects during habituation versus just 2 pairs of objects. So what does that mean? So, A, A, B, B, C, C, D, D, E E F F, those are like different objects. So AA is like two pigs, BB is like two, you know, sharks, CC is like two crocodiles. Etc. Right? When it's 2 pairs of objects, like 2 sharks, 2 crocodiles, 2 sharks, 2 crocodiles, 2 sharks, 2 crocodiles. The the the 3 month olds do learn. Do sort of seem to learn the relation. So same type of graph as before, except flipped around a little. Here, all right, what are we looking at? These, these are violin plots. All right. There's a lot, the, the, the important thing here is the, that the so the violin plots ought to show you the distributions of the data in addition to the line being the mean. Right? Um, So important for, for, for a quick looking at here, right? So here, again, novelty preference, see that bar is higher than that bar. Here, no novelty preference, right? These two, these two lines are the same. He, novelty preference, right? Again, totally novel objects. The objects they played with plus habituated to and the objects that they played with but did not habituate to. So it's the same procedure as the last study except with different numbers of pairs of objects during habituation and younger kids. And the same basic pattern is coming out. Where they're just, where they're showing their relation to discrimination for novel objects and objects they habituated to, but not for objects they played with, without habituating. Right, so from 3 months of age, Infants under the right conditions. Can abstract same different relations and generalize across objects. But they also can get overloaded. Right, so the basic capacity. So when this came out, this was pretty surprising in a lot of ways, because, well, a lot of toddlers fail at this task, and there's a whole kind, there's a, there's a weird thing, I'm not gonna talk too much about whether you can get infants to sort of show. Uh, Perform it like disability with looking time, and then you try to get like a 4 year old to point at it, and they like the 4 year old seems to be worse at the task than the infant is. Um, so, it was pretty surprising that infants from 3 months of age, right? So if you try to get a chimp to do this, it's like really, really hard to get a chimp to learn same differences versus different. You have to do like an incredibly long training procedure, you have to teach them symbols for the same and different to help them kind of, you have to do this, all this kind of elaborate stuff. This 33 month old infants, human infants are. In this procedure are showing more sensitivity to identity relations than adult chimps. They also, however, can get overloaded, right? So at the one hand, this capacity can kind of be seen from 3 months of age. But also when you make the objects really salient. Right, because he played with them, and they didn't habituate to them. Uh, it interferes, it sort of prevents them from showing this ability. Also, too many pairs for the 3 month olds also overwhelms, right? So, so the 6, the like 6 paired one is kind of like, you know, having the harder correlations to learn in the, in the object study. Right, you can sort of make it harder for them to keep track of these things. So they have this basic capacity from as young as we can measure it, but it doesn't mean they sort of show that capacity, depending on the conditions of the experiment. What? Oh, yep. Thank you. Yeah. All right. Sorry about that. What it, what? What is the unique behavioral pattern predicted by the neoconstructivist accounts? Increasing cognitive load lowers the information processing level. B. Specific forms of perceptual input triggers cognitive modules. C, all development is incremental. Uh, I'm not doing a great job of explaining this. That's it, yeah. I'll use slightly different words before, here I was saying cognitive load. Uh, well, before this goes too much further. B is the is the module is the is the nativist account. So a specific form of perceptual input triggers cognitive model, that that's, that's the nativist account. The thing that the increasing cognitive load loads information processing level. That's the one I didn't remember so. Same and different, right? The relationship, in our case, the relationship among stuff is the higher information processing level and the, the stuff itself, just the stuff without the relationships are the lower information processing level, right? So, in the object, in the Younger and Cohen object categorization, that's just the features, right? So the lower cognitive level is like just the features and the higher cognitive level is the correlations among the features. In the stuff that we were just doing, the lower cognitive levels, the objects themselves, and the higher cognitive level is like the same or different relationship between the objects. Right? And so in both these cases, You can increase the cognitive load by in various ways. There's a bunch of ways you can do it. But you can basically increase the cognitive, you can increase the cognitive load and it sort of cuts out their highest level of information processing. And these are all the neo constructivists. I'm saying neo because It's newer than Piaget, right? Piaget is the original constructivist and sort of more modern people are kind of neo-constructivists. And when we compared it to Now, specific forms of perceptual input triggers cognitive modules. That is the nativist account, right? Where you have all these different cognitive modules, right? Of these different like in the like in the object case and we'll, and we'll talk about it next time with the causality case. Right? This is, this is, that's, we, we actually talked about that one last week and we'll talk about it again, uh, next week, so we didn't get to it today, but Remember the remember for that one, the like, uh. Surfaces co-moving to infer that something was an object. There was particular perceptual input like the co-motion of surfaces, trigger their cognitive module of their object knowledge. Right, and we'll talk about that with causation is next, right? Rather cognitive modules is nativists, constructivist is there's no cognitive modules, it's all one big system. Module means like separate systems. For different Domains of knowledge. So put a into canvas. All right, so we'll wrap up there and we'll do causal perception next time. Uh Show this again. Oh yeah, hopefully, one more round of examples. Hopefully that'll make sense.SPEAKER 0Oh Come on. Can I go back to that, uh, little 4-step schematic where you were talking about why vocabulary increases with nouns. Yeah, if you learn the relation that noun x is noun X shapes, for example. For a chicken is chicken shapes. Yeah. How does that help you learn words faster because no other nouns are chicken shapes.SPEAKER 1No, but, but when you, sorry, but when you hear a new noun, you'll go out and go, if you hear a new noun like table, you'll go, oh, you apply the table to, you, sorry, you applied the word table to this one table, but if I see something else that's similar shaped, I will know that's also called a table. So it, so it means it helps, it helps you. How do you learn words from. Because Well, the idea was that before you had this bias, you would have to have heard the same word many, many times before you figure out what its meaning is, right? So, so you'd be like, if you, you hear a cup around a cup, you hear, let's say you hear a table on a table, you're like maybe that word means black. Maybe that word means like made of wood. Maybe that word, you know, you don't know that tableSPEAKER 0means and so you forget the word after hearing it.SPEAKER 1Or yeah, or you, or you need for examples because let's say, so if you have, so if you're thinking about it like, oh yeah, I guess this is a good way to pro. So, so if you are thinking about these different, like, any of you hear every object has many dimensions of features, right? So if every object has this, let's say, a shape, a size, a color, and, uh, you know, material or whatever, and I give it a word. You might just go, maybe that word means when all those things are the same, right? It has to be this exact shape, this exact color, this exact size, this exact material. But then you hear it again, and now it's like, oh, well, it had the same material and the same shape, but it had a different color and it had a different. Size, so maybe it means something about a material and shape. Then you hear it like a third time and you go, oh, the only thing in common across all three instances of using the word table was the common shape. So I can sort of use a kind of like deductive, imagine if you're sort of being like deductive about it. And you have no idea like what this word could possibly mean, but you just know it has something to do with that object, you can like deduce across multiple examples of it, but then if you have a shape bias, you go, I don't have to deduce it across multiple examples. I just know it's the shape. In both instances you've only added one word to yourSPEAKER 0vocabulary though.SPEAKER 1Yeah, no, that is true.SPEAKER 0So it's more like object knowledge capacity increases.SPEAKER 1Right, but yeah, so, so you still need to hear each of these words to learn them, but it's like how many times you have to hear each word for you to be able to use it correctly, right? So it's like, so, so I hear you say table and I want to go and use that word myself, but I'm not gonna use it until I know what else I can use it for. And do those vocabulary tests kind of tap into whetherSPEAKER 0or not you actually know what the word means rather than you just know the word.SPEAKER 1Yeah, yeah, exactly, yeah, yeah, yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, so right, yeah, sorry, right, no, that's, no, I should have, I could have, uh, yeah, no, it's fine. Um, no, that's good. No, I'm glad, I'm glad you, I'm glad you asked. Hopefully that makes sense. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but it is true, I mean, it's true that like you still have to, right, you still are, you still have to hear all these words, right? It's just like how many examples do you need itSPEAKER 0faster.SPEAKER 1You're just learning it faster because you know like what to look out and you're kind of, yeah, and ISPEAKER 0guess if you hear the word table and know that everything table shaped is a table. You're like, Practicing the word table.SPEAKER 1Yeah, right, you're like, oh, that thing's a tape. Like, oh, there's like, so here like, oh, that thing's also a tape it's like, yeah, because at that, because once they're like 2 years old, they're learning like a new word like every hour, like producing like a new word like every hour, and so it's like it's, it's, they're constantly saying until they kind of like run out of words, which happens around like 12 or something, I mean, you know, because you you basically to a certain point and all the new words you get, you get from like. Like, either like this sort of slang, sort of slang words that you might continue to learn, but then you sort of get words from like reading books and from like learning technical language like education. You kind of get like into your early adolescence, you kind of get to a point where you sort of know all of the words that are kind of in common every day and they're kind of common every.