SPEAKER 0Yeah, right.SPEAKER 1Hi everybody. My little recording light isn't on, but I'm gonna have to assume that it's working because it's 5 past and In the past, it works even when the light isn't on. So we'll see. So, last time, I, I had another example of, of sort of to go through with infant learning, but it was really not, it was really just to sort of show the same principles. So I think for time, I might sort of skip it. Uh, but it was just that, so the idea was that there are these basic principles of how infant cognition kind of develops. Um, and I, we showed, I'm gonna go through it again, explain the two examples that we went through, how it corresponds to this, and then say a little bit about the one, but we don't really have to go through it because it, it's just sort of to help illuminate these principles further by showing another domain that they apply. But you don't actually have to know the particulars of, of that domain. If we end up having plenty of time, then maybe we'll go through it, but it's just sort of to help, right? So remember these, these principles are. That we, they start out just detecting low-level feature information, right? The higher level units are formed from the relationships among these. Higher level units from, and this, and this keeps on going, there's higher and higher level units formed from relationships among the lower level units. And then remember that infants tend to use the highest level units to interpret their environment. But they get overloaded, they revert to lower level processing while incorporating new information. Now, if you recall, right, so we did, we gave two across a couple of weeks of lectures, we gave two examples of this. One was all the Younger and Cohen work on infant object categorization, where they were looking at the relationships between the feet. Right? Remember they were learning those categories, look at the relationships between the features. Remember the younger infants could only learn the individual features, but they couldn't put them together to learn what features were sort of associated with what other features, right? And those sort of seven month infants, they And under really easy conditions could learn the correlations between the features. Under more difficult conditions, they couldn't, right? And then they could have reverted back to what the youngest infants looked like who could only learn individual features, right? And the same type of thing happened last time with same different relationships, right here. It was sort of like, when are they focusing on the objects themselves? And when, and the higher level unit is the sort of relationship between the objects, like, are they the same kind of object or are they different kinds of objects? Same type of pattern again, where under some conditions, the infants were capable of noticing the higher-level commonalities, these higher-level relationships, and under. Right? And there's, you know, under other conditions, like the the objects were too salient to them, there were too many pairs of objects to keep track of, they would kind of revert back to this lower level of only noticing the individual objects and not sort of noticing the common relationships, right? So those, so, and I was going to take you through yet a third example of that, but this is the basic pattern that are, that's going across all these different. Uh, all these multiple examples. So there's some lower level of processing and some higher level of processing, and there's a kind of back and forth between when the when the infant is capable of the higher level or when they're sort of only capable of the lower level. Right. Hopefully that makes sense. And if you don't remember what I'm talking about, hopefully going back to the lectures. We'll help that all connect. All right. But we won't go through that third example for time, and instead, though it is discussed in the Conan Cassin chapter, if, if, if, if you really, cause the same principles are involved, so seeing multiple examples of those principles at play should help make sense of those principles. But again, but, but it's more important for you to understand how these principles work than the particular idiosyncrasies of each example. Alright. Um All right, so now we're looking at. Learning relational concepts beyond infancy. So we talked about this a bit last time, this natural partitions hypothesis, where, where the idea is that, right, our accor according to our experience, right, we, we're talking about, what is the world made of? To our experience is basically a bunch of objects and substances, you know, not just objects, but like liquids and stuff, right? There's objects, substances, and all the kind of relationships between them, right? And we sort of as humans tend to perceive these relationships. Right, we can perceive that this thing is next to that thing, that thing's above that, but you can also perceive that the speaker is being held, is being held, it's not just floating near the wall. It's, it's like attached physically by some kind of bracing mechanism that's like holding it up, so we can kind of perceive the physical forces, putting these things together. I showed the examples of those balls knocking into each other. We kind of perceive cause and effect relationships where one ball is knocking the other ball. Right. Now, to the adult mind, we kind of are, you know, and also talk about sameness and differences relationship, right? I can just look out, all those chairs are the same kind of chair that seems to be receiving that commonality seems to be kind of part of my. Experience of the world, right? Now. This is sort of the experience of us adults. But when Gettner was looking at this from a developmental perspective, she was theorizing, well, objects are sort of, are more prominent. Objects are sort of privileged because they're perceptually cohesive, right? Relations are much sort of more dynamic and unstable, right? If, if, if, if the relationships depend on You know, they're way more rela if the relationship between objects are constantly changing, right? We're moving around, we're, we're knocking into each other. I also think about social relationships in, in one context, you might be playing, you might be in a social relationship in this situation, in another context, you're having a different social relationship, but you're the same person in both contexts, right? So, Identifying objects is sort of perceptually easy, and even though we all kind of think and rep and perceive these relationships, they're more dynamic, unstable, and way more ways to kind of represent those relationships. And so from a developmental perspective, Gettner hypothesized that one consequence of this. children will form categories of objects. But sort of from a universally before they form categories of relations between objects. So that means, so one way to look at that is that early vocabularies, we filled with simple object nouns like dog and share before lots of prepositions like of or in. Or even verbs like throw, or, or sort of relational nouns such as guest, like which, which names are kind of how a guest is something that sort of, you know, how you relate to someone else in a visit, right? You're not always a guest, you're just sometimes a guest in that particular social situation. Right. And So they went, so they went around and looked at vocabulary of of young children. Across languages and around the world, this seems to be true. That early vocabulary that early vocabularies are dominated by nouns. And this is related to the shape bias things we're, we're talking about, right? A shape bias is a bias that really reflects concrete. Nouns, right? Now, some languages show a greater bias than others. So English actually is a pretty strong object bias. While while some languages like Korean, where the verb is at the end of the sentence and so it's sort of privileged, sorry, what about why, but basically some languages have a minimal bias and some languages have a big bias, but it's basically never flipped. You almost never have a, a language where kids know more relational words than object words. Right. So that's one sort of prediction that seems to be bearing out from this idea. All right. We're gonna talk, another one is, well, how might, OK, so the next thing we're gonna talk about, and some of this will. Integrate more predictions of the natural partitions hypothesis, but so how might you go around learning these things? Right? So if it's sort of hard, if we're kind of saying. It's harder for kids to learn this, right? Objects are more sort of obvious to our perception, right? If objects are kind of obvious to our perception. Relatively, while relationships between things are way more, is way less constrained, how might we then actually constrain this for children such that they actually come away with the kinds of relational representations that we all seem to have. So we're talking about uh spatial relations, causal relations, and number concepts, which is a form of abstract concept for sure. We're not gonna necessarily talk about social relationships, but there's a lot of work on that as well. Now, a key to. Discovering these common relationships. Through Gedner's work is looking at compare is looking at how compare how comparison works. So really what, what analogies are. So analogies are comparisons that highlight common relationships. Right, so the Rutherford model of the atom is a kind of famous historical model. Now this is not accurate, this is not the correct model of the atom, but it's illustrative of how analogies work. So in this model, the atom was based on an analogy to the solar system. Right, and then what that meant was the relationship between the sun and the planets were the same relationship as the nucleus of an atom to the electrons of the atom. Is that there was a more massive thing in the center that caused the smaller outer things to kind of revolve around the central thing. Right? Or I gave the example last time of the sort of pre of the sort of most frontal part of the prefrontal cortex, integrating relationships to solve analogies such as aspirin is a pain, it's muffler is a noise, which both, you know, again, when you're solve, when you have a, you know, a standardized test, one of the things that happen, you know, if you ever take, you know, an IQ test or things like that, there's often lots of analogies in them. Uh, to sort of see how you can find the commonalities between, uh, um, you know, sets of words. Also lots, so often in IQ tests, verbal, the verbal tests are all verbal analogies and the spatial tests are all spatial analogies, right? Ravens's Progressive matrices is basically complex spatial analogies. We're finding common sets of relationships across the objects in, in the pattern, to find the pattern. Right, but, so that might, that might make you think, oh, analogies are these really, you know, this is the thing that only the smartest people can do. But this idea that comparisons highlight relationships is true of even the kind of most simple sorts of comparisons and relationships. So this is our paper with with adults, but it very simply highlights the role of comparison. So, if you have this, these sets of pictures, and you simply ask people, this is, this is the computer graphics of 1993. Um, if you were a grad student in 1993, you had to sort of use little programs that drew like this. Clearly, you could just get like Sora or something to make much nicer images in five seconds than Art had to make as a grad student in 19, in the early 1990s. But like, Anyway, what this is supposed to be depicting, if you can see, is that a, a guy is delivering food from a CUNY food back to this woman in the above picture, and in the bottom picture, the woman is feeding a squirrel. And so the question is just what goes with the woman from the top picture and the second picture? And often people go, oh, the woman corresponds to the woman because they're both women, and they look, they look the same, you know, they're wearing similar dresses and have similar haircuts or whatever. Most people say the other woman. However, if you, before you ask them that question, you, you ask people, hey, how similar is the first. Scene to the to the second scene, right? So that, that, not that you care, not that they cared about what the similarity answer was, but getting them to say what's similar, say how similar they are involves comparing the two. You look at the two, look at the two, and the idea was that comparison. The act of comparison will put things in correspondence based on their common relations. Much like an analogy does. So in here then people go, oh, the top woman is like the bottom squirrel because they're both receiving food. Alright, so, so there's the fact that you compared the two made people much more likely to see the commonalities in the relationships rather than the commonalities in the objects themselves. Right? And so this is the, and they sort of argued that these mundane comparisons use the same cognitive processes that all the analogies and like intelligence tests use, even if they're much sort of simpler versions of these things. The cognitive process is the same. Right? And so for example, if you are to compare. Now, a more, a more complicated one would be if you were to compare the, you know, same different infant learning study with the, uh, statistic, the, the future correlation study. Hopefully doing that comparisons of those patterns will lead you to the common principles of the infant constructivist pattern that I went through, right? So having multiple examples to compare should highlight their common, the common relationships behind them. Right, and so we'll see that with kids, this kind of helps kids making comparisons really easy for children, really kind of helps them uh find the common relationships. Now, We also get this pattern of learning these relational concepts where Gentner called it the career similarity, where early on you perceive similarity in terms of common features, and the more you learn about something, the more you start perceiving the similarity in terms of in common relationships. And you can see this in their word learning specifically. For example, we already talked about how relational words tend to be learned. Word later. But also many sort of relational words children first. Interpret them As Uh, being about perceptual features of the objects. So they might learn uncle as this like beardy guy, but then eventually learn, oh, it's my parents' brother. It's a particular relationship that makes someone an uncle. Of course, that's a sort of Western-specific use of uncle. Uncle can be used. You know, beyond a parent's brother in other cultures, of course. Right? Um, Island is not just, you might think of, oh, it's a place where there's beaches and palm trees, right? But really, that's a sort of intrinsic, you know, what are the intrinsic qualities of an island. But it's not, that's not what defines an island. An island is a land surrounded by water. There's, it's about the relationships between the land and the water that defines the island, not just that it, that when we think of islands, they happen to be kind of tropical looking. Right, and so often, so children will go through this kind of pattern where they kind of at first learn these words in a kind of way, focusing on the appearance of these objects before learning the kind of true definitions. All right, so how do we do that? Right, we're sort of arguing that comparison is sort of critical for this, what is called a relational shift, the shift away from a focus on objects towards a focus on relationships. Now how does this work? I'll give you an example. Now Here's a picture, and now we're getting with older kids, and so the data are much simpler than the the infant data. Now here, we're sort of showed, OK, this is a toma. It's kind of a weird phrase, experiments are all weird. So it's kind of weird to show a picture of two pigs facing each other and use a kind of singular noun like this is a toma, but just bear with the kind of weirdness of the language. Right, this is atoma. Then you, then you, and then they go, OK, it goes, OK, then you show them two more options. Right, so when I, so the figure has a triad word extension task, that sort of jargon is, is also known as a match to sample task, where there's a target and two options, and you just go, which one goes, you know, which one matches the top the best. This is a Toma, then you go relate, which one of these two is also a Toma. Two turtles facing each other or a pig facing away from a goldfish. Now, here, the relational meaning of Toma is two of the same animal facing each other. Right, this is not a word that already, there's no word that already means two of the same animal facing each other. So we're not, so this is a word that is made up for the experiment. Right? But if you're just sort of looking at them and going like, I guess atoma means like a pig or something. Right, then you might go, well, I don't know what the hell else is going on, so pigs go with pigs. Right? Um, so the object match is noticing the commonality in the pigs, but the relational match is noticing that it's another example of two of the same animal facing each other. The comparison condition, so that's, that's the kind of control condition. It's like just, here's just one example. The comparison condition is 2 pigs facing each other and 2 goldfish facing each other. This is a Toma. This is also a Toma. Can you see why they're both Thomas? Now, which one of these two is also Otoma? Now, you could imagine this further reinforces the object match because the other pair of animals is a goldfish, so you could go to, oh, Otoma is like a pig or a goldfish or something like that. And if that were true, then you might go to the object match, oh good, this one has a pig and a goldfish. So Tomas are about pigs and goldfish, that one matches. But again, the relational match, um, two turtles facing each other. Right, holds that same relationship. All right, so what happens? Look at these simple single graphs to explain the whole thing, not like 7 different graphs to get one insight, because now these are children who can point at things and listen to you. So Right, so 0.5, there's, there's a little, so here, right, so the y axis is Um, choices of the relational option. All right. There's a little dotted line across 0.5, because that is if you were picking randomly. Right. So, if you look at 3 year olds and 4-year-olds, 3-year-olds in the solo condition. Are very far from it, 98% of the time are picking the object match. Pig goes with pig. Now, to be clear, they, they had many trials, this wasn't just one trial, they had like, there were like 10 of these trials with different made up relationships, like, oh, it's like a, a big animal below a little animal rather than two identical animals facing each other. But there was a whole bunch of these like made up relationships with little animals. But just for, yeah, I'm just only using one because, you know, it's easier to have on a slide. Right. However, comparison, 57% relational. For the 4 year olds, the 4-year-old, a few, you know, 4-year-olds were a bit more likely to pick the relational match without comparison, at 25%, but then we're still at 63% picking relational for comparison, so a really big effect of shifting them towards the, the, um, relational match. Now you might have noticed is that comparison or just having two examples. So in the follow-up study, they get, OK, they picked, they put down one card, this is atoma, and they picked it back up, put down the next card, this is atoma, picked it back up and didn't do the like, hey, check them out together, look at them back and forth. Are they doing the same thing? What's up with that? It was just like, this is atoma, and this is atoma, where they weren't able to compare them all at once in front of themselves, in front of them, right? Now, in theory, you could compare it to what you have in your memory, but these are uh. 3 and 4 year olds, so their memories aren't that great, right? Adults will be much more likely to do a comparison between what's in front of them and what they just saw a second ago, but with young, with children this age, their, you know, working memory capacity is not so amazing. So here, what you sort of see is that the sequential condition, right? So, so this is now another, you'll see the data slightly differently in the, in the solo multiple examples because this is another study, right? So the, so now what you see is the sequential is kind of in between the solo and the comparison, but really the, the comparison is much, much more, there's still a big, the, the, there's still way more object matches for sequential than relational matches for a sequential. So that's sequential is when there's two examples, but in sequence rather than compared. Right? Now If you recall, the infant. Relational learning. Now, this was all done before that infant stopped. So, so this was this was when, this is before they kind of realized that infants could do this as well. This this kind of thing, right? And the same different, if you recall last time in the same different learning, when they just got a single example, remember that experiment one, where the infants weren't generalizing based on same and different, and they were just focusing on whether it was like goldfish or whether it was like crocodiles or whatever. It's just a coincidence, they both had goldfish in these studies. Um. Right? When there was one example, they didn't generalize to based on same and different, right? They needed multiple examples to compare, to do, to do it. Now, we also saw that when there were too many examples to compare, that also messed them up, right? Because it was sort of overwhelming. But here, these, these 3 and 4 year olds, their data are looking pretty qualitatively similar to those infants who when they get multiple examples to compare, can sort of generalize based on the common relationships. It's all right. So comparison is one. Important factor to help children learn. Common relationships. Language is also important. So for a couple of ways. One, whoops, giving, I should say given. Probably have said this, I probably looked at these slides 500 times. Anyway, so given two things, like, oh no, no, no, that's not true, ha ha. I've read the sentence wrong. I'm glad that is correct. Good for previous mate. All right. Giving two things a common label is a powerful invitation to compare them, right? So one way language helps relational thinking is that, is that, when you label stuff, kids really wanna figure out the meanings of the words that adults are saying. They're very motivated to do this. Right? And so if you give two things the same label, they're gonna be like, why did those two things get that same label? And then I compare them and try to figure it out. So one way, and so if you just, so just by saying like, that's a Toma and this is a Toma, and putting it in front of them, they're gonna look back and forth and be like, why are those things both Thomas? But in addition, labels help to do what we call reify relational systems, where. Labels help to sort of tell you which are the relationships to. Think about how many people here speak multiple languages. Now, when you've learned a second language, have you noticed that prepositions are like weirdly don't directly translate between the languages? Right? But like object names tend to, like chair, pretty much like means chair, right? But if you're like in and on in between. And things like that, those things don't translate like nearly as directly, you might have noticed, right? So Those are relation, right? So things like in, on, between, stuff like that, those are all spatial relational words. In spat, there's many, many different ways of perceiving spatial relationships, and languages tend to pick up different sets of spatial relation, different ways of categorizing spatial relationships. Right? But in terms of objects, it's like a table, you know, there's not saying that every noun perfectly translates to every other noun, but overall, there's way more direct translation of concrete object names. It's like, that's a plate, that's a fork, you know, it's basically all the same thing. Right? So, but one of the things that happens is that when you're learning a particular language, it helps you pay attention to those kinds of relationships, because those are the kinds of relationships you need to speak that language. Just wondering, I, I've heard that.SPEAKER 0And kids are like That OK.SPEAKER 1I have not seen. A breakdown of that in terms of like the kinds of words that they're learning, like whether there's sort of an advantage for one kind of word versus there, I mean, there's generally, you kind of see language advantages, some, sometimes you either like don't really see any differences or you see language advantages for. Girls, and a lot of different, I was unaware of second language specifically. You often get that, like, if you're doing vocabulary size measures in your, like, study, you'll often see that like, 4-year-old girls have like bigger vocabularies and 4-year-old boys and stuff like that. So I haven't seen actually the breakdown of types of words. Though you're right, it could, it could, the advantages might be bigger or smaller depending on the the kind of word. There is You'd have to look at, yeah, but um I'm not. Hm, yeah, yeah, I don't, I don't, I, I don't know what's in those 8 actually. Right, so So one of the ideas is that one of the things that language does is even though we're capable of perceiving all these different spatial relationships, so if you think about the way your prepositions work in one language versus another, you're clearly all capable of perceiving relationships in both ways, but the language is kind of reinforces one way of perceiving things. And this is true of all kinds of stuff about language, but we'll get into more of that. But I'm gonna introduce, now I'm gonna watch this nice video. Home sign. So home sign are, is that, well, it'll explain, but there's a gestural communication system developed by the deaf children of hearing parents. So, these are deaf children of hearing parents who are never exposed, or who aren't, who aren't yet exposed to sign language, because, you know, they're 3 years old, they haven't gone to like a community, you know, often what happens is that kids go to like a school for the deaf at like age 5, but until then, have no other exposure to sign language, and instead just kind of, but they invent gestural communication systems to communicate with their families. But there's all kinds of ways in which these home sign systems aren't full languages, right? Sign languages are like full languages, just as complex and rich as spoken language, but these home sign systems are different. This is a video explaining this paper. Susan Golden Medal or sort of hi, I'm Diane BruntariSPEAKER 2from the linguistics department at the University of Chicago, and I'm Susan Golden Meadow from the psychology department at theSPEAKER 3University of Chicago.SPEAKER 2Susan and I wrote this piece on the moments in historical time when a non-linguistic system becomes a linguistic one. We take a particular perspective from the home sign systems of children and adults who have never been exposed to either a spoken language or to a sign language.SPEAKER 3Yeah. So a home sign system. Crops up when you have a child, a deaf child whose hearing losses are so severe and profound that the child can't acquire the spoken language that surrounds them. This child is in a hearing world and is exposed only to speech, so his hearing parents don't provide the With the sign language, the child is for all intents and purposes lacking a linguistic input that's usable. So we have home sign on one hand and we have what we call co-speech gesture on the other hand. Co-speech gesture is what the parents use. These hearing parents talk to their children all the time and they gesture all the time, but they're gesturing always with speech. And these gestures look like what I'm doing here, those kinds of gestures. What the home signers do looks much more like what sign language looks like. The children structure their gestures. When they're talking about acting on an object, they point at the object first, a grape, and then do the gesture for eating. Or if they want to talk about drumming, point at the drum and then do drumming. Always the object is first, and then the action is second. They're hearing parrots, first of all, rarely combine two gestures, and when they do combine those two gestures, they're often in random order. I So the hearing mothers aren't providing enough of a model for the children. The children are really contributing these sort of really fundamental properties of language to the system itself. And that's where we think the real interest of home sign is, because it's the beginning stage. And in the rest of the paper, what we do is we explore.SPEAKER 1We don't have to talk about what we're gonna talk more about. The linguistics of this in a couple of weeks, or I don't know how many weeks you have left, I don't know, 1 week, something, uh, 2 weeks. Um, but for now, what we're sort of paying attention to is that One of the things that home signs systems lack is they don't really have a lot of spatial prepositions, OK? There's primary objects and actions. So it's like, you know, I need, you give me the grapes or something like, or whatever, it's like they're sort of basically like, who are the, who are the people involved in an action, who are, you know, the what are the objects involved? You're not really doing a lot of stuff about like spatial, there's not a lot of communication in there with prepositions and spatial relationships. All right, so here is a study now. That looks at Basic spatial reasoning in home signers, where they don't have any linguistic input of prepositions and spatial relationship words. All right, so how does this task work? We'll take you through it. So, this is gonna, now I described this task, this is you, you're gonna be like, this is really easy. All right? So, There's kind of these two little like bookshelf things that have 3. Height, 3 sort of shelf levels, the sort of bottom, middle, and the top. All right. And the way the task works is that they're little cards, and there's, there's like a prize behind the card. Alright, and so on, for one of these bookshelves, you sort of show the kid, you flip it over and go, oh, here's the, um, you know, oh, the prize is behind this card. It's behind the same card over here. Which card is it? So the answer is, if it's on the top card, it'll be on the top card again of the other stuff. It's on the middle card, it's on the middle, and the bottom and the bottom. You don't use those words, they're communicating this, uh, you don't use these words with, anyway, so this is all deaf kids. Some of them though are, oh no, sorry, uh sorry. They're, they're, they're not deaf kids who are exposed to sign language. There's hearing kids and deaf kids who are not exposed to sign language. So you have hearing kids, you have deaf kids who are matched for cognition otherwise. Right? And these are, and the deaf kid's a little bit older, so that's, that's to make sure that they're matched for cognition otherwise because there is some cognitive development that language really helps with in terms of, but they're not that old, they're like, you know, 8 months apart on average. Um, this is in Turkey, uh, and so, What's happening here? So the neutral version is when the cards are all blank. It's just like gray cards and black cards. Top goes, and then the cross mapper, the cross map is a. Lang is, don't remember what exactly what that means, it just means there's pictures of objects on the cards and the objects are mismatched with the relationships, right? So you might see over there, that bottom picture, it's hard to see, is like a pizza, a picture of like a pizza slice, all right? So the pizza slice is on like the bottom down there, and on the other side, the pizza slice is on the top. So the idea is that if you're paying attention to the objects, they might interfere with your ability to recognize the common spatial relationships. Right, cause top, middle, bottom, spatial relationships, the picture of the pizza is like an individual intrinsic perceptual object. Right? OK, so the task is again, if the prize is over here, where is it over here? All right, so here, chance performance is 33%, cause there's 3 options, right? If you, you can either choose top, middle, or bottom. All right, so let's first, let's look at the Um, these guys, these are in the neutral condition, right? So this is when there's no, this is just blank cards. All right. The gray, the black bar are the deaf children, the home signers, and the gray bar are the are the hearing children. Now, the hearing children are like around 70% accurate, way above chance of 33% accurate. The deaf children are about 45% accurate. All right, so much less than the 73. They're statistically above chance, but just a bit, they're just a little bit better than random guessing. At Cross mapped, where now you have to sort of not go, oh, pizza goes with pizza, but pizza, the bottom goes with bottom, right? This is just like, think, remember the, the, the, you know, the lady and the squirrel, right? It's not, lady doesn't go with lady, lady goes with squirrel, right? But here it's like just these basic top, middle, bottom spatial relationships. And here, this hurts the hearing, this hurts the hearing kids as well, right? So the hearing kids, only a little over 50% accurate. Um, on the cross map task, cause the, the common objects is really quite, quite an attention grabber for children. Pizza goes with pizza. Right, but the, the deaf children are now not better than, not statistically different than random. They're basically random, they're a bit numerically higher than random but not significantly different. So, oh yeah, Yes, Yeah, yeah, or that or ambiguous, so it's kind of, I mean, the comedian is the deaf kids, it's kind of like, it's in the same place type of thing. It's, yeah, yeah. So, but they can't, but the deaf in this situation, now, this exact study was not done with. Deaf children who learned a sign language, the assumption is that deaf children who learn a sign language would be just as good as the, as the hearing kids. Because it's not that sign language lacks these spatial prepositions, it's that home sign lacks the spatial prepositions. Right? So, language, language system creates all kinds of stuff that the home signs don't create. Right, so I, so the basic idea is Is that even though these look like very, you know, you're looking to us, you're just like, those are the same height. It's it's a, you know, it looks to our eyes, this looks incredibly obvious. But to, but that's because we have sort of trained our perception to see these spatial relationships in ways that young children have not been or do not sort of, sort of see automatically, it's like almost auto, it feels like automatic to see these spatial relationships for adults. Right, so this is sort of evidence that uh. For relationships, our language systems are really critical. Yes, my memory is that they weren't just significantly different. Right, because one's significantly different from chance and then one isn't, but you're right, that doesn't necessarily mean they're significantly different from each other. You're correct, and now I was looking at this, I don't remember if they're also significantly different from each other, rather than just one being different from chance and one not being. Unfortunately, often with developmental papers, you do end up having like different comparisons to chance, but also you can see there's a pretty low, it's hard to get this, it's hard to, this like, Uh, home sign populations are quite small, and so it's hard to get a really big sample. Um, So I actually I don't remember if that comparison's also different. Though you overall certainly have a neutral versus cross map main effect for sure, because overall, you have a big drop in performance. But you probably don't have an interaction, right? I doubt you, so you wouldn't have an interaction here between how much the cross mapping, it's like, it looks like the cross mapping is hurting both populations. It's just that the, the hearing kids were starting off high enough to still be above chance. I What Right, but they more or less said, um,SPEAKER 0let's just say. Um corresponding Well, yeah, I'm trying to think of howSPEAKER 1now I'm trying to remember in the, yeah, sorry, it's been a while since I read the paper to remember how they said they really had to set up and train them to some degree, right? They clearly would have to like set them up and train them on it to be familiar with this type of like, you have to be familiar to the game, right? You have, you would have a whole bunch of sort of warm up. Where you're sort of seeing that there's things hidden behind cards and how to sort of search for them. So you sort of warm up the whole situation without having the spatial correspondence be the key thing before you then brought it into this task to make it clear that they weren't just like, not understanding what to do. But you're right, given that they don't speak. When they move on with the pizza slices.SPEAKER 0It's weird language We're able to retain the relationship.SPEAKER 1No, they, they, they still, they are still doing worse, but they're still doing better than chance.SPEAKER 0That that that kids were affected by Archie.SPEAKER 1I, I, I think they may not be an interaction, so I, both populations are hurt. It's just that there's a, the, the hearing kids are sort of doing better overall. But both populations are hurt by the cross, by this, what we call cross mapping, which is like an an interference to do the relational mapping based on uh an object, uh, of course, object similarity that interferes with relational mapping. Um, yeah, so both sets of kids are hurt by that. And you can get, if you make the task more complicated, you can also get adults to sort of show, if you, if you make things like this speeded, you can show that adults will also be distracted by. Um, object interference on these types of tasks, but it would have to just be in terms, it would just be in terms of like milliseconds rather than. They would still be like, it's that one. But in, but you would kinda, um, if you were doing, if you were setting this like in a computerized task, where you had to kind of do this sort of spatial mappings, the objects would interfere for adults as well, actually. Um, Yeah Yeah, so, yeah, I'd have to go back and look into how exactly the setup, how the training works. You're right, it sounds complicated. How, how do you actually do this training? Um Uh, right, so. So some people, so there's other sort of theories where uh people sort of, so the, the Gentner kind of view of this, right? A lot of what I was saying, like in the Gentner view is that relation abstract relations is sort of harder than objects, right? The perceptual systems are sort of giving us objects, but, um, our relationships, these more abstract things, there's all this extra stuff you gotta do. You gotta compare things, you might use to use language. However, some other people, Seem to be arguing that actually children are forming abstract causal representations. Uh, without any assistance of language and at sort of younger, at very young ages. Now Her sort of framework is coming from this other sort of perspective where she thinks what kids are kind of doing from very young ages are, is trying to figure out the causal relationships that are, that are, that are happening in the, in the world. So, they're like little scientists who are testing abstract hypotheses. It might be something like, you know, what happens when I throw this ball harder against the wall, it's not necessarily the most like sophisticated. Scientific experiment in the world, but what they're going around doing a lot of the time when they're playing is like trying to figure out the cause and effect relationships. And they, and they have.SPEAKER 4All right Complex problem solving is usually not considered the stuff of child's play, but Berkeley researchers have found that young children are better than adults at figuring out how some things work. In a study using simple shapes and a musical lightbox, children showed a stronger ability to predict cause and effect. In this case, what's causing the box to play. Look at that, the machine turned on.SPEAKER 5For a long time we thought that babies and young children had all these problems reasoning logically or thinking clearly or understanding cause and effect, and what we've been showing empirically is that that's just the opposite is true, that even the very youngest babies already can do things unconsciously like analyze statistics or draw causal inferences.SPEAKER 4Researchers asked both children and adults to figure out which objects were blickets, ones that would activate the blicketness machine. First they were given training showing which single or combination of objects would work. Then they were tested with a more ambiguous set of circumstances. The children were much more successful than the adults in predicting which objects were most likely to be these childrenSPEAKER 5unconsciously are making inferences, drawing conclusions, solving problems the same way in many ways that a very intelligent scientist would. They're not self-conscious about it. They couldn't tell you that that was what they were doing.SPEAKER 4The children were unconsciously more capable of abstract thinking, more willing to accept unusual possibilities for how the machine was activated. Researchers theorized that the adults tended to ignore the training that didn't match their prior assumptions, reverting to their preconceived notions about how things work.SPEAKER 5When it comes to actually Acting in the world and doing things, grown-ups are much better than children, you know, Children have a hard time tying their shoes. But when it comes to learning and particularly when it comes to exploring lots of unusual alternatives, we actually have some reason to believe that children may be better at doing that than the adults are.SPEAKER 1I'll talk about what the claims kind of mean. All right, so in this paper. The 4 year olds and adults learn about two different blicket. Learned about implicate machines, right? The bliet machine is just the thing that lights up. It's called that because you're like, this thing is a blike. Just by calling it a blick, you know, then you ask them which one, which, which of the other things is a blicke. Just the way the blike just means thing that turns on the machine. Alright, the first machine would either work with one specific block or only with a specific combination of blocks. All right, not just any 1 or 2 blocks, specific 1 or 2 blocks, right? You saw the different shapes of the blocks and stuff like that. Now, the 2nd machine with a new set of blocks. Was that so that it would be ambiguous between working from one specific block or from two specific blocks. Now Or what do I mean by that? So think about like causal relationships in the world, right? Now, imagine rather than having one key to open a door. You would like two particular key, right? Uh, presumably, you know, one key goes to one, you can copy the key, but it's basically like this, only this key opens this door, right? That's kind of like only this object turns on the bliet machine, right? And then in the 2 version, it's kind of like, oh, it's not just this one key, it's actually the combination of this key and this other key together open the door. All right. So let's say you kind of had that situation. And um. You know, that's like you're a submarine, you know, right? I mean, everyone sort of famously for movies, you need like both people to turn the key in the submarine to like launch the nukes, right? So, Uh, you know, so you only need both, right, so you need both keys to like open the door, right? And then what they did is, Then they get a new set of things, and they kind of show them a bunch of combinations of these objects do this, these objects do that, and you could infer, oh, maybe there's one object in the second machine that turns on the machine, or maybe it's two particular objects that turn on the machine. Now, What happens, what the abstract reasoning that the kids figured out better meant in this case, was if the kids had seen that the first one required a particular combination, like two special keys to open it, they then assumed the second one also needed two special keys. But if they learn that the first one only needed one special key, they assume the second one only needed one second key. Right? So in that sense they transferred the abstract causal relationships from one set of objects to the next, right? This is a situation where we need two sets, 2 special things versus one special thing to turn on the machine. Now the adults, when they got the new one, they defaulted to assuming it needed one special thing regardless of what the previous experience was. That makes sense? And the explanation for this is that adults go around all the time, in, in the world, there's way more things that need like one thing to make them work, right? Like you usually only need one key to open a door. You don't have a combination of special keys. Most of us are not nuclear, you know, submarine captains, right? So, you only go, you go around all the time with like one. Key to do something, you know, I have one remote control, turn on my TV. I don't have two combination, I don't have like 2 remote controls I need to turn on my television, right? Now, someone pointed out that with dual authentication, maybe they should redo the study that we'll have to have our phone and our password to do anything. So we're much more used to having two things to do anything. But in 2014, that predates that, right? So the idea is that the kids were kind of more, were more influenced by this new experience. They didn't, they don't have all these other experiences about how usually you only need one object to sort of do something, right? So, the 4 year olds interpreted the second one in line with the first, while adults were biased to these single object causal relationships due to their prior experience. So in this case, that is what they mean by kids were smarter than adults at it. They were sort of kids were, the adults weren't kind of ruling things out. So the adults were more likely to sort of think things were less likely based on all their prior experiences, while the children were not biased in that same way. All right. But it's certainly evidence that that the children were happy to generalize. The causal relationship from one set of toys to the next set of toys. That's right.SPEAKER 0I First time. And I'm still Yeah So, so I didn't go throughSPEAKER 1the exact like old showing you what all the like how they kind of made it ambiguous, but they basically showed them a bunch of combinations like, you go through and go, oh, this one works, oh, this one doesn't work, this one does work, this one doesn't work. These two work, these two don't work. You can sort of show a series of things either turning, basically you show a series of objects, either turn the thing on or not turn the thing on, and you have to sort of infer what one thing or combination of things is like critical to turning it on. And basically you can set it up across the different demonstrations that it's like ambiguous between what actually made it work. And basically the adult, when it's ambiguous, the adults defaulted to going, it was probably just that one thing. It, it wasn't, it wasn't like they just only ever saw it that way. There's like a series of demonstrations where you have to kind of infer. What it takes. Let's say it's like, oh, I tried with this key, it doesn't work. I tried the other key, it doesn't work. I tried these two keys, it doesn't work. Oh, these two keys, it does work, right? You sort of go through all these different demonstrations and across them, you go, well, the only thing that worked was like the combination of those two things. But they basically set up the second training to allow for you to be like, wait, was it just that one thing that made it work or was it actually the combination of those, those two things? And if you sort of see the 6 demonstrations, you'll sort of, you could see why it's like ambiguous between the two. Things, right? But basically, like, when there was ambiguity, they just went, they didn't really consider. The two object explanation, does that make? It's a typewriter Yeah, they were kind of happy to be influenced by their most recent experience rather than sort of being biased by their whole lifetime of you only have like one button to turn on a TV or like you have one key to turn to open a door, right? But they were still generalized, you know, but it's still a sign that the children were generalizing from one set of objects to the next. Right, they were sort of, they were sort of showing that they were influenced by that first set of things, even though the objects themselves are different, right? Kind of like, you know, this is sort of a counterpoint to the kids not being able to do like the twoomma thing in a way, right? According to Gopnik's view, that kids' causal thinking is very sophisticated and abstract. This is a demonstration of how they will kind of form these abstract causal hypotheses that constrain how they interpret. Stuff. Um, right. Summer, so the last part of this first lecture, uh, first part, first half of this, is the, is language and abstract thoughts. We're looking at how language plays a role in number. Now, in Susan Carey, her origin of concepts, if you remember her system. She's talking about core knowledge, right? So now, now we're jumping back. To infancy just very briefly, and in her mind. So you have core knowledge and then you get past core knowledge, right? So when people have core when the core knowledge theorists don't think you stay stay that way forever, you learn all kinds of stuff. But in number, she sort of argues that there's a core knowledge number system that you have to get away from. All right. So, for example, when, when you might be able to sort of perceive small, exact quantities of small things like they can distinguish two dots from 3 dots, right? If you sort of look at them, you kind of get a sense without really having numbers in your mind, you just can can clearly get a sense of how many there are when there's small numbers of them. But when there's lots of stuff, you just kind of have a vague sense of the quantity. You don't have precise numerical representations. Then she said one of the things that changed when adult, when people sort of start learning math is they start realizing that every quantity can have a precise numerical representation rather than just these kind of small quantities and very sort of vague large quantities. Right? One of the things that she points out is that 2 year olds can often count to 10 and beyond, but it doesn't mean they know what those words mean. Parents get very excited, so they'll, they'll reward their children for saying a list of 10 words in a row, such as 123456789, 10. If a child can do that, parents are like, yay, they did it. It might reward them for it. It might reward them. For it. It's not actually, however, they can just memorize that as basically the idea is that it turns out they're sort of memorizing an arbitrary list of words and don't actually realize there's any kind of reason why it's 12345 rather than 251, you know, 3. So what happens is, is early on. They learn the meaning of 1, right? So how about you test that? How about you show this? Let's say you have a whole bunch of, uh, you know, lollies, and you just go like, hand me 2 lollies, right? If they know what 2 means, they'll give you 2 exactly. They won't give you 3, they won't give you 1, they won't give you 5, right? So there's a time when, uh, you say, hand me 1 lolly, and they give you 1 lolly. But then you say, hand me 2 lollies, they might give you 2, they might give you 4. Right? And then they learn 2 as its own word. All right, and they go, 02, so they, so they'll give you 2 lollies exactly. But then if you ask for 3, they might give you 5, they might give you 3, who knows? Then they learn 3, the word 3, so they're learning 12, and 3 is like individual vocabulary words like chair and table and fork. Right? And then they get to 4, and then after 4, they sort of get it. So they learn 123 and 4 is like individual vocabulary words, but then after 4, they go, oh, I see, every number is like the next quantity. Like 5 is 1 more than 46 is 1 more than 5. But until, but until they got to past 4, they're just kind of learning individual words. So, the idea according to Kerrie is that language, according to Carrie, and then Gentner sort of explains how this might work. Language helps them transition helps them transition from this core knowledge phase of kind of just like perceiving these quantity differences to a real numerical representation. And the structure, basically the structure of language allows for an analogy to the sus to the structure of the concepts, right? Basically the sequence of words. Reflects increasing quantities. Right, that's the the analogy. Right, so if you're, so if you're counting dots, so you're further by 1 in the count, right? I say 1234 in that sequence, I don't say 1342, I say 1234. And if I'm looking at the number of lollies I have on the table, I have one more and I say the next word on the list. I add one more and I say the next word on the list. So you can see the correspondences across the sequence of words that I've memorized and. You know, it's further down the list. But you know, by one, and it's one bigger than the total number of stuff. Right. So There's a connection. So the idea is that the that this number language is really important for learning it. However, the implication then is, is that if you didn't have number language, maybe you wouldn't have number concepts.SPEAKER 6As his fluency grew, Everett began to realize something was missing. The Pitaha have no words for colors. No past or future tense. And incredibly I, I don't guess what I I ISPEAKER 0wanna go the pitaha have no numbers. I, hey, go get, so I got that, yeah, go go hey, go get some hey.SPEAKER 6Research from MIT indicates the Pitaha may be the only culture on Earth without any numeracy.SPEAKER 7Pitaha don't have numbers because they don't need them. They survive just fine without them. Somebody asked me once, You mean Pitaha mothers don't know how many children they have? Well, that's exactly what I mean. They don't know how many children they have, but they know all of their children's names and they know all of their children's faces. Uh, they don't need to know how many children they have to know who their children are and how they feel about themselves.SPEAKER 1Right. So There is evidence and there's been some controversy around this and back and forth between what does it mean to not to have numerical concepts and what they can do and not do, but, The last time I checked, that's still the general conclusion. Um, it's also certainly. Posit, you know, it's certainly possible that you could learn these things about language potentially, but it doesn't seem like. Um, these people have. All right, so a summary of this part, then we'll have our 5 minute break. So, um, Right. So we talked about constructivist patterns of building relational representations as a higher level of object representations last time. And then the Gentner's sort of analogical point of view that the world is sort of naturally partitioned into objects and the relations among them. Our perceptual systems readily process objects, but relations are less perceptually constrained. And so it's facilitated with sort of language and scaffolded comparison of examples. This pattern is sort of common across age groups. In in the core knowledge view, we are born with core knowledge, this is inadequate for mature cognition. Language is needed for the conceptual shift to mature cognition, for particularly the paradigm example of that is sort of numer is numbers to be able to do mathematical thinking. Well, Gopnik, let's call it a hypothesis testing view, the where she's focusing on the causal exploration, she actually argues that children from as early as they can think at all, are thinking abstractly, um, and are, and are sort of building abstract causal representations in their mind, even from infancy. So, she has a different take, we're both sort of, you know, uh, in a certain sense, but. Anyway, they're all close enough to this, right? But, but she sort of focuses on slightly different domains. But here are these different, some of these approaches. All right, so let's have 5 minutes. Anyone, or any questions in the meantime, any questions?