SPEAKER 0Hello, I was the one who emailed you about a question regarding lawn. Um, I was asking about this familiarization trial that I was confused about. Um, yeah, I, I understand your response, and I think that makes sense. I'm just thinking like if let's say um they actually understood the relation, then shouldn't the new um novelty preference score be higher. It doesn't make sense.SPEAKER 1No, but the, the old versus new are like which objects they're being tested on.SPEAKER 0Yeah, that's right.SPEAKER 1So they should both be, so you should show a novelty preference for the same, for the novelty preference score, if they get it, should be above the line forSPEAKER 0all of them. Every single one of them, yeah. Oh, but I thought this was talking about their relations, so, um, but, but yeah, but this is a noveltySPEAKER 1preference score for relations. So if they're obituary the same, that means they're preferring different to same, obituary to familiarized to different means they're preferring the same to different.SPEAKER 0I see, I see. OK, but this will be talking about the objects then, or the old versus new is like, are they testedSPEAKER 1with objects from the study or are they tested with new objects?SPEAKER 0Right, so I'm not really understanding why it should all be. it would have been. Yes. to Wait, say it again.SPEAKER 1Like, if let's say um they actually have a traded,SPEAKER 0why would it be above the 0.5?SPEAKER 1Because it's a new relationship. So if they're habituated, if they familiarize the same novelty preference score means how much longer they're looking at a diff a pair of different objects compared to a pair of the same objects. So if they obituate the same, they should show if they learn saying, they should show a preference for difference and compare it to the same, right, but the relationshipSPEAKER 0stays the same.SPEAKER 1No, it's, that's the point, it's, it's the same it's the objects that are the same versus the objects that are different. Right.SPEAKER 0Oh, OK.SPEAKER 1So the relationship is changing. So old versus new refers to are these objects familiar or are these objects new. The novelty preference on the y axis is the relation new or is the relation.SPEAKER 0Oh, so this is a, when you say new, it means like a new relation.SPEAKER 1No, those are new objects. Oh, OK. See, that's, see that these are the objects from the familiarization trials, and those are new objects not from the familiarization trial, right?SPEAKER 0But these objects have the same relation. Yes, so shouldn't it, but.SPEAKER 1They're they're, they're seeing all of these things, so this is a different score. So that is, so if they're a bit familiarized the same, it's how much are they preferring these two new objects that are different versus these two new objects that are the same.SPEAKER 0Oh, I see. OK, OK, got it.SPEAKER 1Thank you. No problem, yeah, yeah, no problem.SPEAKER 0That Yeah. Yeah Wait, wait, sorry, why was, why was there aSPEAKER 1gap in the like, in which comparison cross map to neutral or hearing to death in the cross map, yeah. Oh yeah, cause they, they still had some. Yeah, yeah, the, yeah, the idea is that like even though they're hurt by the award interference, they still have enough of a representation of relationships to be better thanSPEAKER 0kids.SPEAKER 1The, the, the hypothesis is that the exposure, yeah, the hypothesis is that because they've learned prepositions while the home sign kids have not learned prepositions, the idea is that like without learning the prepositions, you can't really do this task. And there's an original, and there's even like an earlier version of this using that same task using um. All hearing kids and even just like using the prepositions with the kids makes it much better.SPEAKER 0So actually. Yeah, yeah, exactly, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's the ideaSPEAKER 1is that without these, without these prepositions, we like don't form these like relational, we don't relate, without these like propositions for these spatial relationships, we like don't form stable representations of these relationships. It's not like you, it's not like you can perceive it, but you won't like see the commonalities. That's the Gentner, to get, yeah, it's like these, these don't really have names, so it's hard to, I don't really care that you know Gentner's name, but it's like, it's not, it's not really a label. It's not like constructivist, where you have like a theory. It's not really like a theory label either.SPEAKER 0Yeah, yeah, I know, yeah.SPEAKER 1All right, I think that was 5 minutes. 5 minutes goes very quickly. Just think how, you know, quickly the whole year is gonna go. We're only like halfway through the year. No, I'm just kidding. No, no, we're almost done. Um, so. All right, so, so picking up on the idea of abstract concepts, now we're gonna be talking about how play involves lots of abstract thinking. So if you're interested, these are quick little articles where people are sort of debating the role of play in education. Like, should we be making preschool kids, you know, learn lots of stuff in like some kind of like real preschool emphasis on school way, or, you know, should they just be playing and having fun, and then there's sort of some people going, it could be both. It's a false dichotomy. So you can also read this more extreme paper like this article, School is a Prison and damaging our kids. Applies to university at NASA. All right, so. All right, some perspective readings on this. So play, people argue is important and is in decline. It still seems to be in decline or a lot of these sort of a lot of these historical analyses, I haven't seen the latest updates, so maybe there have been societal shifts back towards playing, but probably not. Very rarely does anything get better. So, children play, and it's good for children to play. This 2009 paper reviews the sort of evidence for this. There's evidence that play, imaginative pretend, free play, reduces stress and anxiety. For example, they had took anxious, anxious kids in preschool, then they sort of had them go play, and they came back and they were less anxious. And improve, they're suggesting that improved social skills. So, so kids that have lots of free play sessions, they were kind of given social conflicts to reason about, and they were sort of better able to like offer better solutions to like these social conflicts between children. There's a suggestion that it improves creativity. For example, if you give kids divergent thinking tasks with objects and they got to play with them first, they were sort of more likely to sort of generate all kinds of new creative things to do with those objects via the playing process. There's a, there's some evidence that it helps kids' self-regulation and lowers impulsivity because to sort of play with a bunch of other kids, you can't just do anything you want, you have to develop a system of rules and behave accordingly. So There's There's this guy Peter Gray has been sort of writing a lot about this. According to a paper published in 2005, the Archives of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, children's free playtime dropped by a quarter between 1981 and 1997. Concerned about getting their kids into the right colleges, parents are sacrificing playtime for more structured activities. As early as preschool, youngsters' after-school hours are now being filled with music lessons and sports, sports reducing time for the type of imaginative or ambitious cavorting that fosters creativity and cooperation. Right, so way more, so the point is that you could say sports is a form of play, but it's much more structured than just like two kids running around in the woods with a stick. All right, which is what the good old days were like, Yeah, so. Um In this paper in 2023. Tried to sort of look at this historical, these historical data and sort of look at and sort of and correlated how much more structured time children have versus time to sort of be on their own and how this is related and causes. Decline, you know, sort of increases in child psychopathology diagnosis. Now, this analysis this is in the Journal of Pediatrics. Now this analysis has been criticized, for example, it's extremely hard to do these types of historical analyses because diagnostic criteria change, for example. Right, you see this, you know, this is a big part of things like with ADHD rising or or autism spectrum disorder rising, it's very hard to disentangle how much our diagnosis increasing relating to the how we diagnose things versus versus the actual problem increasing. So it's hard to disentangle those two things, but, you know, people have been arguing that all this structured time is not helping. What's play like? So before we're getting other things, it's sort of a brief general characterization. That kind of match, kind of match up with PHS phases. So in infancy, there is sensory motor play. Right? Like this insensory motor phase where a lot of it is just kind of like repeating actions. Like I'm just gonna open it. I remember one time I was 8, I'm watching this 18 month old just sort of open this door and close it over and over and over again. Just kind of like open the door, close the door, open the door, close the door. All right, there's symbolic pretend play. Like constructive play, building and making stuff. Uh, dramatic play, imaginary situations and role playing in such situations, right? Where you're kind of like putting on a little, you know, you sort of. Having your toys and you're kind of acting out like adventures they might go on or something like this, or maybe it's you and your friend are pretending that you're going on doing whatever, maybe you're just playing house, or maybe you're playing, you know. Whatever, you know, fantasy dragon stuff, you know what kids like to do. OK, so, so 2 to 3 year olds often engage in parallel play and where they sort of aren't necessarily together, but they're both, they're playing near each other in, in similar ways, and 3 to 5 sort of develop more group play. In games with rules, so a lot of this early stuff doesn't have a lot of rules, but as growing from 4 to 7, as kids are getting older, there's much more adherence to sort of establishing rules for games and playing within them. And sort of more structured than kind of dramatic play where maybe you just sort of more like, you know, doing improv. Uh All right, so if you ask, if you sort of survey teachers and parents being like, What type of thinking is engaged when they're playing? Often people go pretty little. Right? It's just, when you say it's just child's play, it's suggesting that it's sort of not to be taken seriously. So they often, often parents and teachers will say they can't deny that children can think mathematically, logically or scientifically, right? And the pre-operational child, according to Page, can certainly not do any of these things. This is, these are operate logic, math, science, these are operations. Right, however, research from this millennia. Um, sort of focus on actually how sophisticated thinking can be while children are, while children are playing. Here's another What is going on in this baby's mind?SPEAKER 5If you'd asked people this 30 years ago, most people, including psychologists, would have said that this baby was irrational, illogical, egocentric, that he couldn't take the perspective of another person or understand cause and effect. In the last 20 years, developmental science has completely overturned that picture. So in some ways we think that this baby's thinking is like the thinking of the most brilliant scientists. And in studies we've just been doing in my lab, similar studies, we've shown that 4 year olds are actually better at finding out an unlikely hypothesis than adults are when we give them. Exactly the same task. So in these circumstances, the children are using statistics to find out about the world. But after all, scientists also do experiments, and we wanted to see if children are doing experiments. When children do experiments, we call it getting into everything or else playing. And there's been a bunch of interesting experiments, uh, studies recently that have shown that this playing around is really a kind of experimental research program. Here's one from Christine Laguerre's lab. What Christine did was use our bliet detectors, and what she did was show children that yellow ones made it go and red ones didn't, and then she showed them an anomaly. And what you'll see is that this little boy will go through 5 hypotheses in the space of 2 minutes. other side. OK, so he's just, his first hypothesis has just been falsified. Nothing. This one's light up and this one's not. OK, he's got his experimental notebook out. Hm I don't know. Every scientist will recognize that expression of despair, right? Oh, it's because.SPEAKER 0This needs to be like.SPEAKER 5And this used to be like that, OK, hypothesis 2. That's why. Oh. Now this is his next idea, he tells the experimenter to do this, to try putting it out over onto the other location. Not working either. Oh, because the light goes only to here, not here. Oh, the bottom of this box has electricity in here, but this doesn't have electricity. OK, that's the 4th hypothesis. It's lighting up. So when you put 4. So you put 4 on this one to make it light up and 2 on this one to make it light up. OK, there's a 5th hypothesis. Now that is a particularly, that is a particularly.SPEAKER 1Alright. So, right, so the idea is that when children are playing, and then this of course was a game that was about testing hypotheses, so maybe that's not really what they do when they're playing, but adorable. There, so there's other Schultz and Bowitz have a paper where they're trying to show kids' motivation to play with toys, maybe about them trying to figure out how they work. So that was so that like, so kids are kind of in this view of these folks is that like kids when they're playing around, they're always trying to sort of understand what, how things work, what's going on, and build causal representations of the world. So here's a toy, kind of like Jack in the Box type toy, where there's two levers, there's two levers and two things pop up. So it's like, what is this, like a, a dark lever and a like bird pops up and a light one and a little. Something here I see that. Well, something else pops up, right? And you can basically demonstrate this toy. So the adults demonstrate either. Like, where you sort of do it confoundedly, where you sort of bring, where you sort of flipped down both levers and both things pops up, or, You, uh, you know, do one at a time, you can kind of see which one does what. And then you give the kid the opportunity. Do you want to keep on playing with this toy, or do you want to play with like a different Jack in the Box? Type of toy. And basically when they've done it in a confounded way, so the kid couldn't figure out what was going on, they wanted to play with the old toy. But if they already sort of saw how it worked, they wanted to play with the new toy, suggesting that the motivation to play with it was about understanding its causal mechanism. And it is that this is all part of these like little scientists that, that young children are. Uh, that's everything I just said. Now, call's reading the play is, is abstract, that's why I just, um. That's what I just talked about, this was now that these lectures are in the same lecture, this was like 10 minutes ago, right? That kids are willing to entertain hypotheses that adults may be biased against. However, they're sort of arguing that. Kids are like these great little scientists. So do you even need to go to school to become a scientist? Why are we forcing you to sit through these lectures? So. Now, despite foundations of scientific play. There's a lot of demonstrations that kids do not on their own, figure out what we might call the control of variable strategy. When you're doing experiments, what you often try to do is isolate variables, this should be familiar idea. Right, so here's to sort of teach, to look at kids' ability to isolate variables. Here was a kind, this was elementary school, these are primary school kids, you know, year 3, something like that. Um, Where they're going to look at. What's going to lead the ball to rolling down this ramp and going like up a number of steps in the step uphill surface. Right, and there's 4 variables on the ramp. There is how high up the ball starts, right? So on the bottom, it's higher up than on the top, is how steep you can make the ramp, you can make it steep or you make it shallow, right? Um, you can make it smooth versus rough, and you can make it a golf ball or a rubber ball. And you can sort of do each of these things one at a time to figure out what effects they have on predicting how many, you know, steps on the uphill surface the ball will climb after being, you know, going down the ramp. Now very few children. Vary one thing at a time. They're likely to do what's on here where they vary everything. They go, OK, so I'm going to go a smooth surface, golf balls, short run, steep ramp, and I'm going to change everything and make it a rubber ball with a rough surface and a shallow ramp. They don't go, OK, I'm going to kind of maintain the steep ramp. And then change the ball to isolate what the ball does. I'm gonna, and then I'm going to maintain, you know, the ball and change the ramp to see what the ramp does, right? They, they don't sort of do this systematically. Instead, they kind of vary everything and see what happens. So they are kind of interested in figuring it out, but they're not really doing it in the way a kind of normative scientific scientist would. So you actually need to act, it turns out you actually have to go to school to learn about experimental uh methods. Um, and there is this project in Switzerland, particularly looking at how when you kind of have inquiry-based physics education, so for example, children sort of figuring out what testing what things make things float and what makes things sink. This is actually very hard for kids because it's sinking and floating is about density. It's a relational concept between the relationship of, you know, mass to volume through different substances, right, about buoyancy, right? So. They they kind of test all kinds of stuff before they figure it out, and to do this, they end up learning both physics concepts and understanding how to do scientific experiments to isolate variables. But it, you don't just sort of do this on your own. Despite the kind of foundations of scientific thinking in very young children. Right, they don't have an abstract representation of the sort of isolate control for variable strategy. Also, domain knowledge is critical. Right? So one of the main I'm saying what's the difference between like a little kid and a scientist, right? So, knowing about the domain you're testing is really critical because they tell you which variables are important to think about. When, if you ever read a paper and go, this scientist didn't control for this variable, it's not because they didn't know they were supposed to control for variables, right? It's that their theory didn't tell them that this variable was important. So the idea is, is that to be what the kid, what the kids are, so you to become a sort of scientist, you have to, you have to, you have to learn a lot about how strategies for inquiry, but you also have to learn a lot of stuff to know what variables are relevant to uh try to control for and test. There's a little video discussing some stuff like that, but. You can watch that on your own, it doesn't really add too much to what I just said. All right, so that's scientific thinking and that's sort of a little brief outline to how kids are thinking like scientists in play, but that doesn't mean that you don't have to go to school to learn about science. So people have sort of looked at. Logical thinking in play with the basic idea being to do imaginative play, this kind of requires certain sort of fundamental logical inferences. Right? Now, pretend play is often about establishing hypocritical situations in reasoning from the premises of these hypothetical situations. Right, if you're thinking about like writing a novel or a screenplay, this is sort of what you're doing, like, here's the situation I'm setting up, what would the characters do next? This is like a set of, you know, logical inferences. Also could have counterfactual reasoning, we go in the world that's like X and Y follows, but what about if the world were different, what would follow after that? So there's some pretty simple studies kind of looking at children's ability to kind of the connection between imaginative play and basic elements of logical thinking. So can children think logically about hypotheticals that contradict their experience? Well, a lot of people actually have sort of trouble with this. So when you're, if you're, and if you have a task, even with adults, just kind of evaluate the structure of a logical argument, but the conclusion contradicts with adults' beliefs, even if the argument is sound, they will often say that's not sound because it contradicts my beliefs. So, so even adults will have. Trouble, uh. Ignoring their knowledge and beliefs about the world to evaluate logical structure. But Children seem to sometimes not even be able to do that in a very simple sense. So. For example, you start with the premise, all cats bark. Rex is a cat. Does Rex bark? So a child might say no, cats, you know, cats don't bark, so they're kind of ignoring that in this world, we're kind of setting up with the premise that like it's a false premise that cats bark, but within this world. Can you make the logical inference that Rex the cat barks. So ignore the world that you know and just think about this world. So if you ask 4 to 6 year olds, a lot of 4-year-olds will go, no. Rex does not bark, suggesting that they can't kind of do this type of logical thinking abstracted away from their particular experience. However, what Harris showed is that you can just simply say, imagine a world where cats bark and then they're fine. Rather than saying all cats bark, right? That's kind of syllogism framing is weird. But if you just say, imagine a world where cats bark, then they're like, OK, I got you. So Now, it turns out this isn't that hard once you kind of put it in the frame of imaginative play, cos then kids are happy to think about all kinds of things that don't really work in the real world because they're imagining them. Now, There was, there is this work, this kind of classic work by collaborators of Vergotsk have been talked about, where they're really interested. So remember the socio-cultural model is that there's so that a lot of our thinking are kind of driven by cultural institutions. During the the USSR, uh, there are all these parts of Siberia where schools had never been introduced before. There was no schools. And so these psychologists sort of went out went out there to try to get them, let's like give them all these weird thinking tests to see if they can think like logically or whether that requires school. And they kind of came away from it thinking because these guys refuse to do this type of stuff. They refused to kind of do logical thinking about things they hadn't seen. They all, their, their, their thinking seemed very tied to their experience, and the sort of conclusion was that you need school to think abstractly. You, you, and then, but then, and so Harris in this paper is kind of like, we can't go back to Siberia in the in the 30s before schools were introduced. But we, I kind of think that he's like, well this kind of contradicts that conclusion that you can't do any kind of logical thinking without formal schooling. Now there's all kinds of other stuff in that work, but that's one takeaway that Harris sort of tries to argue for in this paper. Um So this Another simple demonstration of the connection between logical thinking and pre and pretend. Is that here, these kids are shown, and the ability here again is to kind of think about something just going beyond your experience. So it's pretty minimally in this, in these tests, they're looking at what's like minimally going beyond the experience right in front of you to kind of think abstractly. Cause again, the pre-operational child is not supposed to be able to do that really at all. So here, 3 and 4 year old children will show a toy that lights up and sings. Happy birthday Oh, that's the wrong button. They're shown two objects. This is very similar to the blicket, but now they're being called a Zando, A Zando and a non-Zando. A Zando makes the box play. As a Zando, you put a Zando on the the toy, it lights up and sings Happy Birthday. Non-Zandos are objects that we put on the toy do not make it say happy birthday. Then you ask, hey, wait a second, what if this other non-Zando was the Zando? What would have happened if you put it on the box? Right? So some children could say, oh yeah, well, if the non-Zando was the Zando, then it would have played. But other children are like, nope, that's the non-Zando, the box would never play. So that they sort of wouldn't be willing to entertain the counterfactual, while some children sort of were happy to entertain the counterfactual. Another experimenter comes in and takes the box and the toys. And they, and then this other experimenter says, then the experimenter says, this is a stuffed, shows him a stuffed monkey. So this is the stuffed monkey's birthday. This is all very plausible stories, but now they don't, but now they don't have the birthday singing toy anymore. Cause that other experimenter came in and took away this birthday singing toy. So the experimenter takes out some other objects and goes, OK, just pretend this is the birthday singing toy, and this one's the Zando, and this other thing is the non-Zando. All right, now to make this monkey not feel bad, not feel, feel good about his birthday. What are we gonna do so that we can sing Happy Birthday to this monkey? Right? Now, the correct response is to take the Zando, the pretend Zando, and put it on the pretend. You know, birthday singing toy, and then start singing Happy Birthday. Right, and not take the pretend non-Zando. All right. So some kids could do that and some kids couldn't, and basically they were sort of showing that across these different tasks, there was sort of a strong correlation between the counterfact that that doing this to pretend, play, and doing this just with sort of some counterfactual logical premises were highly correlated with each other. In addition, they kind of gave them some basic executive function tasks, and the executive function and tested it, you know, and all these connections across pretend play and counterfactual thinking were maintained, even accounting for differences in executive function and other kinds of cognitive development, sort of arguing that. This kind of logical reasoning is a part of pretense. So they would sing Happy Birthday to the monkey. Appropriately Right, so the point is that both these quick little studies. Basically show how these 3, these, these preschool aged children can go beyond their perceptual experience. And think and and think logically about, you know, follow some sort of basic deduction relating to these objects that aren't exactly what's in front of them. The types of stuff that in theory, a pre-operational child may not be able to properly do. So that's just a quick, that not as much in there. OK, more about science and math. So Now, those are all domains. Now we're looking at those logical things, that's kind of like, oh, that's kind of cute, these kids can actually, you know, understanding pretense, pretend pretend and logical thinking. are kind of more connected than we kind of realized, but what's, you know, what are we going to do about that? Now, when when mathematics, no one's sort of, you know, no one's too concerned in a certain from an applied translational sense, whether or not 4 year olds can think logically. However, we are, the world is very concerned with innumeracy. Right, with kids who really struggle to learn math in early primary school. So, and a lot of people have looked to play as a way to kind of scaffold early math education. So Now a lot of this research is done in the US, so some of these things may not be as true in Australia. But One of the things that, so in the in the US people who go into primary school teaching. tend to be people who themselves were not particularly good at math. And if you look at surveys of early kids who were teaching, not just primary school, but like kindergarten, like, like people who are teaching children who are sort of under 7 years old, tend to be people who weren't like, I really loved math when I was young. Right? And so they don't like math, they often really hate it and have no interest in teaching the five year old kids in their kindy like anything mathematical beyond perhaps counting, and they used to do stuff with clocks, but I don't think anyone does that anymore, cause, you know, when's the last time kids have seen an analog clock? Um So Also, there's a lot of it, also when you think about what we were saying about how important play is, people might go, we shouldn't sort of teach any of these kids, um. Uh, uh, you know, we don't, we just wanna play, that we shouldn't be forcing them to learn math, it's too young anyway. We don't think they can, we don't like it, and they don't need it. So there's this paper that's sort of sort of argue that actually kids are naturally displaying all kinds of mathematical thinking in their play. If you, and they sort of did a lot of in this paper, they did a lot of time just cataloging all the different types of mathematical thinking that these young children are showing in their play. They sort of argue that we can actually leverage what they're doing naturally and sort of use that to scaffold their education. And so it's not gonna be, we, you're not, you're not, we're not, we're not advocating taking a 4 year old and like see them in a lecture hall, we're saying like we can sort of build some formal mathematical reasoning on top of the playing they're already doing. So Here are some examples. Where they're looking at kids playing and looking at the, so what some of the things they're doing, classification. For example, sorting or categorizing by attribute attributes. For example, the children might clean up blocks on the rug, for example, taking one block at a time and placing it in a box that contained the same size and shape of other blocks. Also, a girl took all the plastic bugs out of the container and sorted them by type of bug and then by color. They were classifying, and if you look at things like early standards for kindergarten learning, it's like learning to sort shapes by their geometric properties and things like that are like. Early learning outcomes for 5 year olds. Pattern and shape. This category includes identifying or creating patterns or shapes or exploring geometric properties. In one example, a child made a bead necklace, creating a yellow red color pattern. In another, a boy put a double unit block on the rug, two unit blocks on the double unit block, and triangular blocks in the middle, building a symmetrical structure. These children were playing with pattern and shape. And there's sort of evidence that looking at preschools, children's abilities to recognize common patterns is predictive of their math achievement in primary school, while controlling for numeracy. So in addition to numeracy, patterning recognition is predictive of early primary school math achievement. So they did a whole bunch of these other examples. We don't have to go through all of them. But basically there's all these examples of kids, they sort of looked at all these kids playing in preschool and going, look at this, this is like sim like look at all the sort of seeds of mathematical thinking. Much like there are seeds of scientific thinking, but they still need science education, but we can sort of build education around what's already there. On the other hand, lots of adults fail in mathematical thinking. So why, so if we have such all the seeds of mathematical thinking in our. Play, why are we then so bad at it, as adults? So for example, there is a case. In the 1980s, so, you know, McDonald's has a, has the quarter pounder, right? And Burger King was like, we're gonna make the 3rd pounder. That is bigger. However, it failed because people thought the quarter was bigger. The 4 is bigger than 3. Right? So that, you know, I'm not advocating for Burger King. Right? But that's sort of, that's sort of a sign that there's a problem, right? So, also, we also mentioned how 4 year old, but if, you know, clearly if a person, if a child was like breaking things up into 3 pieces versus 4 pieces, they would look at it and go like, well, the 3, this, this one's bigger, right? When you break it into 3, that's bigger than breaking into 4, right? 4 year olds also talking about, can, can you carefully use symmetry in their block building, but then if it's like year 7, you're learning about how to define symmetry in like uh algebra class or something. Then, you know, it might be much harder. So what, what's the disconnect? One thing that We, we should mention, of course, uh, in the American, uh, uh, uh, research, there's huge socioeconomic class disparities. So there's basically, there's very high rates of numerical illiteracy in, in, in people from lower economic backgrounds. And maybe, I don't know, maybe, I mean, everyone's, maybe, you know, perhaps cash registers aren't used by anybody anymore. They have to do that themselves now at McDonald's, right? You go up and do it yourself. But, um, you know, Still, all kinds of jobs requires basic arithmetic and with, with fractions and decimals as well, not just whole numbers. It turns out almost everyone gets whole numbers, but fractions are the real problem. Um, we can talk about. I I was interested, but there's, however, looking at this from a younger kid's perspective, because they're not learning fractions in, you know, kindergarten, right? But from looking at a uh uh looking at it very early, if you give basic numeracy tests to kids from high, from higher economic groups and lower economic groups entering kindergarten. The kids from higher socioeconomic groups are sort of doing, are already starting ahead. Um, and not only that, these differences at kindergarten are predicting, they are predicting, like, who ends up being numerically illiterate later in life as well. So what's going on so early? So some people have argued that if you look at these mathematical play analyses, you don't see any difference in these kind of latent in these kind of latent mathematical reasonings, but you just see differences in the kind of formal mathematical reasoning. In verbal specifically. So you can sort of demonstrate this, so you might look at kids as sort of showing that they have this knowledge sort of tacitly, but then they can't verbalize it, and you need to be able to verbalize it um for school and, you know, professional life. And as we talked about in um uh oh, sorry, and I'll do this quiz in one second, but as we talked about uh in Uh, the, the, um, AB Cedarian tutorial, right? There's huge disparities in the quantity and quality of language input and conversation in high and low SES groups. So there's sort of the idea is that there's way more opportunity to translate this tacit knowledge into language in these, across these situations. Right? Low SCS give me the opportunity to reflect on their play and make concepts explicit. This is one account of this. Um, hold on, before we do that, before it's too late, let's look at. This, there we go. Alright, Oh Here we go. We're gonna connect earlier lecture to a previous one. Which classic theory is most aligned with the results on how language supports cognition from this last lecture. Paget's constructivist theory. Vergotsky's social cultural theory or Chomsky's nativist theory. Now, I don't think I really gave you the answer to this before, so I'll just use this opportunity to explain uh the answer. Uh, I, oh yeah, and then, right, so. Now, And Piaget's constructivist theory. Which is wrong. So, so. It is a language just comes out of general cognition. All right. So there's no, that sort of language is kind of an expression, right? So if you remember the development of the semiotic function, children develop the symbolic cognition and language is sort of an output of the developing of symbolic thinking more generally. So there, it goes from cognition to language, not language to supporting cognition. In Chomsky's nativist theory, that is about innate language, but in his original theory, he was actually looking at sort of language as sort of independent, as sort of modular. Nativist theories are modular in that each, so, in a modular theory. Right? You don't really have language and cognition interaction. They're they're they're they're potentially separate. In Vygotsky's social cultural theory, the correct answer here, B, it is language is, so in Vygotsky's theory, culture provides tools for our cognition. Language is one of those tools. So language. Is a cultural tool to support our thinking. The exact way when, when, when Gner is talking about how language specifically helps with relations or it specifically helps um with numbers, right? That wasn't part of Vigosky's. Uh, theory, he wasn't breaking it down like that. It was more just like language is this cultural tool that helps us think, but generally, effects on language helping cognition in the abstract are, you could sort of view as most aligned with Bagotsky. So put the answer B. All right, well, shall I get the final point in about math and play? Before it's too late. So No one is saying to take playtime away from four year olds, but Clements and Sarama are sort of arguing that educators, if you understand what children's thinking is like, you can sort of build playful curricula that sort of allows them to mathematize their implicit knowledge. Siegler at a slightly different angle and saying actually. You don't have to worry about that. You have to focus on what the precise representation that kids need is. And Focus on that representation. You can do that in the game, you can make it fun. Everyone wants to make math fun, right? So we can make math fun for kids by making it a game, but we have to, we should be targeted. And the critical thing is the number line. Kids, if you want kids to understand numbers. The best thing you can do is help them build a mental representation of a number line that like, their numbers are evenly spaced across the line, and you sort of go up 1 to 10, right? You actually show this with, you know, so for example, you have this interesting pattern where some kids might learn the number line 1 to 10, where it's all evenly spaced, and then you go now do a number line from 1 to 100, and they start doing a weird thing where like, at first, all the numbers are kind of evenly spaced, and then all the like 50 to 100 are all kind of jammed near the end, right? And adults will do this with like really big numbers. Some some adults think we'll put 1000 million, billion, trillion all equally spaced on a number line because you say them in a row, million billion trillion. Right? So, even adults have trouble with large quantities. Um, but the number line representation is really critical. And also one of the big differences with fractions, right? So, people who do often do really bad with fractions is because they were taught fractions, like, how many pizza slices do you have? Like 3/8. 0, there's 8 pizza slices, you have 3 of them. People were not taught where 3/8 go, you go from 1 to 2. And you're sort of put 2 quarters, you know, that's a half, well, you know, let's say you have like 2/8, 4/7, you've all these fractions, and people tend not to be taught them on a number line. And so people are terrible at fraction reasoning because they haven't integrated fractions into their number line representation. That is starting to change in in mathematics, but, but basically these number line representations are really critical for kids. So how do they show that we don't have time to really go through it. But basically they have kids play this game. Where they just go, they spin a die or, or spin a little wheelie guy, and they go, OK, you got 2, go from 1 to 3. OK, you got 2 more, go from 3 to 5. It's just like a race to get from 1 to 10, and you just kind of like spin this thing and you go up a bunch of different numbers, you go up a few different ways, right? Um, You go from 2 to 6 or whatever, 6 to 8, and you eventually get there. So you're sort of playing this game and you're sort of reinforced that numbers are all equally spaced in a line and go in order. And there's control conditions where it goes around in a circle, or there's just a bunch of colors and it's not in a line, and it doesn't help. And one of the things that this, what they show is they get kids from low SES in preschool to play this game. And then they sort of end up matching their higher SES peers entering kindergarten, um, in basic numeracy. Thanks a lot. They would, it, it could, but it's not all that other stuff may not reinforce the line. I mean, those games are definitely more fun, right? But they're not necessarily reinforcing this like number line idea. So you could, in theory, implement a bunch of lines into that, where you kind of have lines of different. Right, you could design it in such a way, but they were, but to show here, they're like, what you need is they designed this game to really target this line, this linear representation. And so, he, so he says, rather than trying to sort of turn everything the kids are doing into a math game, just focus on like, this number line game, and that's all you really need. Um, and here's some graphs showing you. I don't have time to go into it, uh, but these graphs basically are showing you what I said. It's basically just testing their ability to like, put numbers in a number. So afterwards, it's like, afterwards, the test is just 1 to 10, put 2 on a number line. Now put 4 on a number line, just asking them to put different numbers on a number line and just sort of measuring how accurately they're doing that. And their ability to do that accurately then predicts their ability like to do arithmetic and stuff like that. So the ability to do the number line stuff is just why it, it leads to older other early math ability. Yeah, this is my research, you don't have to worry about that. That's fine. I'll do that. You can do it next week. Uh, I'll just do a little summary. Free play helps social skills, creativity reduces stress. Before entering primary school, children show sophisticated thinking skills during play. They test hypotheses, determine cause and effect relationships, they reason logically, deductively and counterfactually about imaginary scenarios that conflict with their knowledge and experience, they show a multitude of mathematical thinking strategies. Formal scientific and mathematical thinking is still a great challenge. Early educational curricula needs to build on their ability to shown in play and make such knowledge the object of explicit reflection and reasoning. My paper was just applying the G, the comparison in language to learning about little engineering principles of how to make structures stable, but it's, it's just reinforcing the same ideas you already heard about. Is it right here.SPEAKER 0Yeah So I came upon yeah. of Yeah, I mean, I have, I did some, I,SPEAKER 1I haven't done some of that stuff in a while, but yeah, I could, yeah, so the, the, the learning through play, we did this stuff for like in a science museum where kids were learning how to build stable structures, and we sort of taught, and they're using analogical comparison sort of showed them how to learn about stability.SPEAKER 0Isn't like most everything learning is through play nowadays I haven't.SPEAKER 1Oh yeah. I mean, Yeah, yeah.SPEAKER 0Yeah. Yeah, right, right, because it's kind of like there's noSPEAKER 1reason until you get to like the realm of likeSPEAKER 0you have to like reading books and stuff like youSPEAKER 1might as well make it all playful.SPEAKER 0Yeah No.SPEAKER 1Yeah, yeah, we'll see, yeah. Thanks. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He talks a lot on like.SPEAKER 0Yeah, we need to like group play so much more. Like parents need to change so much and kids, kids aren't really doing risky play much anymore.SPEAKER 1Yeah, yeah, right. He has this thing of like, we've over-regulated. Why is that just, I just signed out. The parents So you need to, you need to.SPEAKER 0But Yeah, yeah, I mean, there's, yeah, yeah, right.SPEAKER 1There's, there's a lot of, yeah, we've, we've kind of made things incredibly, he talks about how much we've made things way too safe in real life and not nearly safe enough in the digital world. I mean, there's some things about, but I think over the base, I think that basic, I have sort of problems with particular ways that how he deals with the data on like the specific way, but you're right, that basic message seems reasonable that we're.