SPEAKER 0All right, we're recording. Uh, so today we are talking about the development of executive function. So readings, these are all kind of short. Um, the, the, the top paper is a preschool program that improves executive function. It's very, uh, you know, if you ever read an article in Science, they're extremely short, they don't really tell you anything. Um, but the supplementary materials that actually describes, you can't, when you read the article, you can't really tell what happened. But the supplementary materials describe the methods, uh, appropriately. Um Right, so, we're gonna talk about uh introduction of executive function and 3 different sort of subcomponents of executive function, and then we're gonna talk about uh socio-econdemic status and executive function interventions. So this is just like a 5 minute video, we don't have to watch it now, if you want a quick sort of reminder of the summary of what executive function is, you can just check it out then. Um That's like executive function in the preschool years. All right, so what is that, so executive function, right, the, the metaphor, right, is it sort of comes out of this sort of history of sort of neuroscience where a lot of If you looked at like different types of brain injuries, there'd be, say, oh, there's sort of, we, we think of how different parts of the brain are kind of domain specific, right? Like, oh, there's a language area of the brain where people had, you know, Broca's area damage, they sort of affected their language or if there was, you know, damage to the, uh, you know, rear part, different sensory parts of the brain, it'd be specific to vision, specific to hearing or something like that. Right, and the idea was that all these different sort of subcomponents of the brain, you would have to have some other part of the brain that's sort of in charge of the rest of the brain, right? And the executive function is that sort of notion where it's kind of controlling of all the different stuff that's all the different activity that's happening. Right, all the different impulses you might be feeling, emotions you might be feeling, different sensations that you could, you know, of different types. It's kind of sorting out and making sure like what you're actually paying attention to, what is sort of being up-regulated, what's being down regulated, right? What is, um, uh, you know, what's the sort of focus of your mind, given all the sort of activation that could be happening all over the brain. Right, so rather than being all these domain specific parts of the brain, it's this kind of central, it's sort of in charge of the rest of it. It says, I'm gonna pay attention to this over here and not this over here, right? So what's really critical for is Um Having a plan and keeping them, right? So, so executive function is really important for goal-directed cognition, right? You have a goal in mind and you and you sort of behave in service of that goal. Like you might have a plan, and then you sort of, and as you're sort of reaching that goal, you might also be paying attention to like, you might check in and go, am I actually reaching this goal? Or have I completely abandoned my goal, am I doing something, something else? Right, executive function is a sort of how you kind of keep track of that. Right, monitoring what you were doing or learning, right? So if you're studying, right? If you're sort of reading, uh, you know, textbook chapter, you might sort of go, you might check in and go, am I actually understanding what I'm saying? Uh, right, so it supports meta-cognition, emotion regulation, right? So you might be getting really mad about something and then you go, oh, I shouldn't yell at my dad at dinner, I should, you know, calm myself, right? Um. Executive function is sort of critical for that. So, for making sure you, you're behaving socially appropriately, right? So for example, there's when people, there's there, there's some work with like brain damaged individuals who have very particular parts of their frontal lobe damage, and they just start saying incredibly socially inappropriate things. Like the rest of their cognition seems like kind of fine, like they don't have, they don't have any problem accessing work, you know, they don't have like. You know, uh, aphasia where they have any issues accessing language or anything, they'll just sort of like, you know, so, so, for example, uh, this, this cognitive neuroscientist, Jenny Beers was doing this research, and she was like a young research assistant, and all these old men would just start being incredibly, like, inappropriate with her and like the research setting. And I was like, oh, they have this part of the brain that was damaged, right? And that was sort of like what the brain damage was doing, right? So Right, the idea is that it's the exec it's sort of the executive of your mind and brain, it controls your, you know, it's so you use it to control your thoughts, your feelings, behaviors. I, I'm gonna feel this way instead of this way, I'm gonna behave this way instead of that way, right? Controlling your impulses. So, all right, if you're understanding all that, you might go, well, what, what are like two year olds not very good at? Right, 2 year olds and 3-year-olds are not, don't have a lot of executive function, right? Two year olds, you know, when you think of a 2 year old throwing a tantrum, that is not someone who is like down regulating their emotions to behave appropriately, right? This is sort of what, you know, so this is this, this, these abilities change quite a bit during our early parts of life. Um So, a lot of the research in childhood around executive function is around this kind of 3 to 51 of the things that happens across lots of tasks, and you also might remember this sort of pattern from like the theory of mind tasks like and false belief tasks, all kinds of stuff. You're like, 3 year olds can't do this at all, 4-year-olds can kind of do it, and 5-year-olds are really good at it. There's a whole lot of tasks that cognitive psych people also have developed that all have that same kind of pattern, and it appears to be sort of based on these big changes that are happening. Uh, in this period, and not coincidentally, people sort of go to school are sort of, you know, because school involves like sitting still and listening and not just sort of throwing tantrums, you know, school tends to sort of, you know, people tend to go to school, right around 56 years old, when a lot of these abilities have sort of matured to a certain extent. Of course, these keep on improving, right? So executive function keeps on improving through your adolescence into your mid-twenties, right? And so later on, so for example, there is research with adolescents that shows their kind of intelligence outpaces their impulse control. Right, so you might have someone who, you know, can solve very complex problems in like an analytical thinking sense, but then still be like, I'm gonna drive 150 kg down, you know, an hour down this highway or whatever, right? So. Um, and so, so, you know, this is why, for example, car rental insurance drastically drops after 25, people become much less impulsive and risky in their, in their decision making around their mid-20s as seen in automobile accident rates. All right, so, um, So this sort of continues, and then you start declining almost immediately. You kind of reach your peak and then you just start getting worse, um, pretty quickly. So as a middle-aged person, I'm well beyond my peak of my executive function abilities. Um. And so when you actually talk, but we'll, we'll get to sort of why that doesn't matter as much for older people as younger, you don't, there's a reason why you don't just become like a 4 year old again, right? Because one of the differences is that you know lots of stuff, right? So, executive function is really important for sort of dealing with novelty and dealing with, uh, uh, sort of, you know, because the fluid reasoning abilities are very connected to executive function. And You, in the more novel situations you're in, it's sort of very allows you to kind of be so cognitive flexibility is a big part of executive function as well. There's a whole bunch of sort of interrelated things. So being very flexible and dealing with new situations is a big part of executive function. Um, though as you get older, there's just less new things in your life. Right? You, in your knowledge, can sort of overcome deficits in exec in the executive abilities. That's why, so for example, you can like, if you talk to your grandfather, they can, might be able to talk very intelligently about like the political history of the 20th century, and then they're like, how does my phone turn on, right? Because, you know, a lot of kind of novel problem solving has to do with These these executive abilities which are in sharp which decline much more slowly than they rise during childhood, right? So, you know, you, from after 25, when you start in your thirties, they start declining, um, uh, you know, by the time you're a much older person, they're, they're much slow, but they're not like a 4 year old. It's not like, you know. Um, it's not that sharp a decline, right? And the reason why kids are so helpless and not like young kids is because they don't have any impulse control and they don't have any knowledge, right? So they don't sort of, you know, so the, the, and the knowledge makes up for quite a lot. And your ability to regulate your behavior. As well, right? All right, yeah, so, so again, so, also, one of the things is that, so during middle childhood, Uh, this is the largest time of growth of the frontal lobes. So, so the prefrontal cortex, the frontal part of the brain is the most critical sort of part of the brain for executive function. So, Um And actually the largest time of growth is actually between 7 and 11, um, even though, uh, uh, this kind of earlier growth is sort of studied a bit more, cause it seems to be this kind of big difference between, like, can you generally kind of behave like a, a person versus are you just kind of freaking out all the time or not, you know. So, like, you know, when you have a, meet a 6 year old child, you can like kind of talk to them, you're like, oh, this is kind of like a little adult. Because they can sort of stay in one place and have a conversation, right? Um. So Again, one of the things that is sort of changing throughout, so in addition to the prefrontal cort, right, so the prefrontal cortex is maturing. Throughout childhood into adolescence into the early twenties. But also a big part of this change biologically is the connections between the prefrontal cortex and the rest of the brain. Right, so it's not just that like the prefrontal cortex itself is like growing or something, it's more about the network connections in the brain. So For, so for example, uh, the strengths between, so one of the big things when I'm talking about things like impulse control versus intelligence and things like that in adolescence, this has to do with how kind of emotional parts of the brain like the amygdala is sort of connected to the prefrontal cortex and how you can regulate your emotions sort of based on the strength of these connections. Right? And so the strength, these particular connections get stronger throughout adolescence and early twenties. But also people just sort of vary, and this is sort of critical to their emotion regulation. People just sort of vary um in this as well. So for example, work by Chris Beavers, David Schne, Janet Pacheco, sort of looked at how much connectivity, this is all in university students who are sort of either at risk of depression or sort of not at risk of depression based on family history and things like that. And they sort of showed that the amount of white matter in the brain connected the prefrontal cortex and the and the amygdala was just less for people at risk for depression, right? And the idea being that. Right, um, If you have a sort of potentially triggering event, right, cause you could experience, so different people would could experience things that might trigger a depressive episode. But if you have more brain stuff connected to your prefrontal cortex into, into your amygdala, suggesting you'll be better at kind of regulating yourself out of a potentially sort of downward spiral into a depressive state. Given the same situation. So the people at risk for depression have these different uh uh. Brain connections, right? brain. And I, I, um, there's so much individual variability that I, I'm actually not sure of the gender difference, but there's so much individual variability within genders that's probably more important than the cross-gender. Often with gender differences, there is some differences between gender, but the variations within genders are usually much bigger than the average differences between genders. Because so people uh mature at at very different rates. Uh, for this brain stuff, right? So, so we're talking about ADHD this week in tutorial. I don't think we talked about this, but there's a long history of, like, 12-year-olds sort of being diagnosed with ADHD but like not having ADHD anymore by the time they're 17 because they were just like, developing their, like, executive function at a slower rate. So a lot of these things are like have very, so there's huge vary, so in this kind of middle childhood, in the adolescence period, there's just huge variability in how rapidly these things are changing. Though it's true by around the mid-twenties, it seems like people have kind of all caught, so you often have people catching up who are sort of maturing slower at a different. Uh, age, if that makes sense, yeah. come. Yes. Yeah, no, yeah, totally, right. So when we're saying, and, yeah, in the, in one of the papers, um, talks about, we'll talk about that a bit later, you, yes, you're totally right. The sort of when we're kind of saying it's, it's preventing the development of prefrontal cortex, we mean sort of both its area and its connectivity. It's often we kind of use that as a sort of shorthand to mean it's connectivity as well as it's sort of the size of its, of its own region. Yeah, yeah, yeah, 100%. Environment, yeah, so, so the, so the stress, yeah, so family stress, so stress in the home, uh, really hurts prefrontal cortex growth specifically. So yeah, yeah, so that paper, that the, the, the um fur and what was the names? Sorry, I just can't remember what it's like, what is it? Hackman and Farah Sorry, Hackman and that Hackman and Farr paper is all about how stress related to low socioeconomic status hurts the prefrontal cortex development, particularly. It also hurts some like language, some language stuff as well, but it's primarily those areas, right? It doesn't sort of, there's, there's stuff in the brain that doesn't, that stress doesn't seem to be as effective. Of, right? Um, but yeah, this exact, like, but if you look at, if you can do stress in people, and also sort of in real time as well, like if you, if you have a task manipulation in an experiment where you kind of induce stress for in various ways, you can do this by telling them like, you're gonna have to give a speech to the class after you do this experiment, or you can do various ways to make people stressed out, and it really hurts their executive function abilities when you're under stress. That's an explanation for things like test, test anxiety, hurting. You know, hurting your performance on tasks is that anxiety is basically this, it sort of hurts your executive function, the kind of worries, kind of sap the resources that might be used towards your executive function, towards towards performing complex tasks. Um, yeah, so, so this is sort of the locus of a lot of those kinds of, uh, uh, effects. For sure, yeah, um. Right, so The, so the 3, like, so there's a kind of, there's different people parse executive functions. I started listing a whole bunch of stuff like cognitive flexibility, your meta-cognition, your, you know, there's different ways of breaking it down. Um, sort of executive function on the one hand is one big thing, but it also has a bunch of subcomponents. Um, now, over, they're all highly correlated with each other, right? So overall, people who have good executive function in like one task also have good executive function in other tasks, and the basic trajectories of, you know, this all improves during childhood is also true for all of them, but they're still Still are subcomponents in the correlations where you can have, you know, if you do a factor analysis, um, of, I'm sure if, you probably read about this in, in, you know, when you guys did intelligence in 1st or 2nd year, there's probably a factor analysis of executive function paper that probably was taught. Um, but the three kind of main subdivisions in child work are response inhibition, uh, working memory and flexibility. So we'll go through each of those. So, the response inhibition is the most, from the developmental perspective, is the most studied. Sometimes, if you're reading a paper and it just says we measured their executive function, that probably, and they didn't really, they don't really elaborate on that, they probably did a response inhibition uh measure. So sometimes it's a bit confusing because no, no one enforces that academics use terms consistently with each other. So you might have noticed this, you're like, why is this person saying this, and other person saying that? Because like no one forces you to not do that. Um, there's a joke that academics rather share a toothbrush than, uh, terminology. Uh, so. Uh Right, so, but what's, what is the response inhibition, right? So this is about inhibiting, right? This is the stuff that's most related to things like impulse control. So when you inhibit the most alluring or habitual response, you do something habitually, and then you're, you realize your habit doesn't apply here, and you have to inhibit it, right? You, um, you have some reward that's right in front of you, but you should really, you know, instead, uh, hold off for longer term rewards and rather than this immediate reward, right? That's in it, you have to inhibit that. Right? It's 5:00 p.m., right, I said, yeah, so it's 5:00 p.m., a colleague knocks on my door to go to the pub. Do I keep on writing that paper or do I go, you know. Um, things like the marshmallow test, which is, uh, you know, a famous test where kids were sort of offered, you know, they could eat one marshmallow now or just wait a little while, some unspecified amount of time to an adult walks back into the room and they get to, uh, eat two marshmallows. Everyone's sort of heard of this, I'm sure. Um, some of these findings have turned out to not be as reliable as they seemed, but that's more about the how good the marshmallow test is at measuring it, not that respo, not that inhibition isn't important, right? Cause again, you, uh, this week for the tutorial, everyone read the Moffatt longitudinal paper, right, about how self-control in middle childhood predicts criminality and health and wealth, um, later in life, right? Uh, that sort of self response inhibition is most related to things like self-control. So, how are these often measured in um kit, right? So the most famous sort of task that's about response inhibition is a stroop test. I'm sure everyone's familiar with the stroop test, right? Where you have to say the letter of the, you have to say the color of the letters and not read. Right? The words, right? So if you look at, you wanna just sort of, your automatic response is to say red when you see the word red, but in the middle there, there's a red and green letters and you have to say green, right? But you wanna go, you gotta go good, but then you say, you know, you wanna say red, but then you force yourself to say green, right? So that's a response inhibition cause you wanna say one, you wanna do one thing, there's a very proponent strong response because you will learn to read, right? And so part of learning to read is automatically. Recognizing the word when it's in front of you. However, children can't read, right? So how do you do a stroop test with children? So, there's a few different versions of this, but the, so here, here the day night one is perhaps the most common one. So they show that, so you show the kids a bunch of different picture of like the sun, of like different forms, and you have to say night when you see the sun and say day when you see the moon or like stars in the sky. Right, so here there's just sort of an, you know, so there's a thing that you sort of wanna say, right? If you, if, if you're, if you're, if the task is, say, this is a day-night game, you have to say, and then you go, OK, but say night when you see the sun and say day when you see the moon, and a 3 year old's like, oh, that's really hard. I really wanna say day when I see the sun. Right So Now, response inhibition also has important, uh, so that's that's often how it's sort of assessed, and of course, if you look at 3 versus 5 year olds, the 5-year-olds will be much better at not saying day when they see the sun than a 3 year old will be. Um, So but it's also often important in sort of in theoretical debates. So remember. We talked about, um, in the tutorial a few weeks ago about like kids failing the um, Uh, uh, conservation task, right? And it, it was sort of like, why are they failing it? Right? And we also, there's also a discussion on this in the theory of mind development, where, where kids are sort of failing. There's some arguments that kids are failing the theory of the false belief task, but still have some underlying ability. Right, so, so, so there's often this discussion, this notion of competence versus performance, right? The idea is that a child might have an underlying competence, but there's something that's preventing them from showing, from performing, from performing with their abilities. Right? And there's, and so for example, so some people have claimed, for example, in the theory of mind case that you guys learned about in the first half, that actually kids from like from infancy have an understanding of false belief. But they don't have the executive function to show, like, because. Responding consistently with your own perspective is just the most immediate obvious thing to do. And so not that they don't understand someone else's perspective, it's just that they can't inhibit their own perspective, right? They respond based on their own perspective because it's right in front, that, that's at the front of mind. And what actually is changing from 3 to 5 is not getting. Better at false belief understanding, but getting better at executive function, where you're now inhibiting your own perspective to be able to, to think about the other person's perspective. But the underlying sort of conceptual understanding of false belief has always been there. Right, so there's multiple places in the field where these types of arguments happen, where they rely on response inhibition as this kind of construct to sort of explain a pattern. I can't remember if Caroline actually walks you all the way through that and her lectures, but if so, then that's uh revision. Um, it is also. Uh, um, true in some of the work. Remember I was showing, remember, uh, I guess it's just last week, we were looking at young kids compare, you know, responding based on object similarity rather than noticing the common relationships, right? There was some suggestion that a critical thing for them to sort of ignore the object similarity and focus on the common relationships requires response inhibition. So that's a big part of sort of explaining their abstract thinking because the concrete superficial stuff is just more immediately obvious. Um, there's also work, however, that this response inhibition is really a kind of consequence of like your ability to represent goals, right? So you have, so all of this stuff is like when you make your goal really prominent. So if you think, so for example, in the false belief test case, right? If you can really keep at the front of your mind, your goal is to reason from the other person's perspective, then that sort of allows you to ignore your own perspective. Um, and so And the same thing in the same thing with the day-night shoot task. If you can keep in mind the rule, the goal of this task is to say the opposite of what you think you're supposed to say. Your ability to kind of represent that in your mind is what's, is what changes, what's critical to allow you to inhibit your responses. All right, so the, the next example, so, so cognitive flexibility. As measured in various ways in adults. In children, the most common way to measure cognitive flexibility, at least in these young children, aged 3 to 5 again, is the dimensional change card sort task. I'll play you a video of this of demonstrating it.SPEAKER 1And in the shape game, if I show you a boat like this, I want you to put it into this box. But if I show you a rabbit like this one, I want you to put it over here. Look, here's a red boat. Which box does that go in? In here. OK, boats go here, rabbits go there in the shape game. Look, here is a blue rabbit. Which box does that go in? In here. OK. All right, now you know what, we're gonna play a new game. We're not gonna play the shape game. We're gonna.SPEAKER 0All right, so just to be clear, what's going on here, right? So there's The cards, they're they're all boats or rabbits, and they're all red or blue, right? And the shape game means you put them in a pile based on their shape, so you don't care that it's blue versus red, you just care that it's boats or rabbits. The color game means. You don't care that it's boats or rabbits, you just care whether it's red and blue, right? So you have to sort of change which, this is which sort of rule you're following, right? And what you, what you're gonna see is, and so I'll show you, so now that, you know, it doesn't, you counterbalance across children which one you start with and which one you go to second, so it's not about just shapes or colors are easier, it's about their ability to switch between the two.SPEAKER 1Play the color game. In the color game, if I show you a blue one, you have to put it in this box. But if I show you a red one like that, then I want you to put it over here, OK? All right, look at this. Here's a red boat. Which box does that go in in the color game? OK, now you know what? Can you show me where do the blue ones go in the color game? And yeah, and where do the red ones go? And here. So what about this blue rabbit? Which box does that go in here.SPEAKER 0All right, so you can see what's going on there, right? The child is able to tell you the rule of the game, right? But she, but the child perseverates in the behavior that was established first, right, when it's actually time to look at the card and, and, and sort it, right? This is called the dimensional change card sort, right, cause color versus shapes are different dimensions of the perceptual uh stimulus, and you have to change, which one you're using to sort your card. Right? So it's not just they don't remember the rule, they can report it, but once they've kind of classified, once they've kind of figured out a way to sort of classify these objects, they can't change, right? So this is like a sort of a lack of cognitive flexibility. Right, that changes drastically between 3 and 5 years old. But this relates to the sort of idea that often if a child is misbehaving, let's say, in like as a 3 year old, you can be like, what's the rule, they can like tell you the rules. So it's not like they've forgotten the rule. It's the ability to kind of act in accordance, and then you think, oh, they must be willfully defying my rule. That's not what it means. It has, it actually, the ability to sort of have a rule in your mind and connect that to your behavior is something that drastically changes in the 3 sort of 3 to 5 years of age. Even, you know, so it, so it's sort of frustrating if you're trying to have a 4 year old follow a rule. Um, but that's, you know, kind of just the situation we're in. Uh Right, so, so working memory now. This is a third aspect of Um, executive function, right, which is, has to do with how much information you can sort of juggle in your mind at once, right? This is really critical for complex problem solving and learning complex concepts, right, so this is the component when people are looking at, so I was sort of hopping around between the different types of executive functions that stress hurts. Test anxiety, when I gave you that example, that's about hurting working memory more than anything else. So that's sort of what you need, if you're like on a if you're in like a math test, if you're doing your stats test and you're really anxious about it. Like a, you know, doing math problems, you have to keep a bunch of stuff in your mind at once, and the worry kind of saps up their working, their working memory capacity. So you just can just deal with fewer sort of stuff, fewer bits of information in your mind at a time. Um, there's other sort of panic that can make you, you know, of course, right? Stress can also make you really bad at emotion regulation, right? Stress can hurt all of these different things. But when I gave that example, that working memory is the most relevant one for that, uh, case. So, Halford's relational complexity theory talks about how he def he defines working memory in terms of not just the number of items. Sometimes you think about like a short-term memory test and you're kind of thinking, OK, how many, like, if how many, you know, how, how many numbers in this list, how many words in this list can I kind of remember while I'm doing something else, right? Uh, but Halford says really what working memory is about, what, what forces you to consider something in parallel, right? What forces you to consider things together is that they're being related to to each other in some way. Right? So. And I'll tell you what sort of what that means, right, because if you have a bunch of different items, but they don't relate to each other, you can, you can chunk them and serialize them. You can consider them in sequence, which greatly increases your capacity what to think about. But the problem is when you're doing a complex problem, you have to sort of see how all the elements interact with each other. Right? And so, for example, an analogical reasoning, which we've talked a lot about, I'll give you another example, to sort of under, to sort of see the commonalities and the relationships across a bunch of different things involves you considering all those things at once. So this is a sort of working memory capacity, heavy um uh uh type of prop thinking. Whoop, hit the wrong button. So it's not just the number of items. So I'll give you an example, so. All right. Now, to show basically that that's when Halford to show that that basically adults kind of max out at like considering four things in parallel. He used the example of consi of interpreting um. Uh, uh, of interpreting interactions and graphs, like from statistics. This isn't kids, you're just showing that even in adults, we kind of max out at being able to consider four things at once. All right. So let's say, for example, so, so we can think about this in terms of main effects versus two-way interactions versus 3-way interactions. Right, so if you were to ask someone, all right, so let's imagine a world that we're looking at the sales of cakes between different bakeries, we have fresh cakes, we have frozen cakes, we have chocolate cakes, we have carrot cakes. And if you were to ask someone, oh, what's the most popular cake or a form of, you know, what sells best, right? If you're just considering Fred's Bakery, you have two main effects, right? Fresh outperforms frozen, and chocolate outperforms carrot. Pretty simple. When there's main effects, you can just, you don't have to consider things interaction, it's just different vari each variable is independent of the other variables. So it's very easy to think about. If you look at however you're considering Bob's Bakery, there's a, there's a, there's a, there's a two-way interaction there, where, well, OK, well, for chocolate. Cakes, there's no difference between fresh and frozen, but for carrot cakes, frozen's more popular than fresh. But then if you're gonna consider the whole thing together as a three-way interaction, because the, the interaction between fresh, frozen, and chocolate and carrot, it interacts with Fred's and Bob's bakery. So there's, well, to do the whole thing, if it's Fred's bakery, then fresh and frozen, it doesn't matter, right? So you start sort of. Figuring that out and just considering that you can sort of just feel when you're reasoning through the data, just your reasoning with a three-way interaction starts to just kinda hurt your head. And basically, and then there's a 4 and And then four-way interactions are basically uninterpretable, and no one can understand a five-way interaction. You just like can't really do it. Like you have to figure out some way to chunk it. Like in this paper, it's like, you, it's just sort of impossible. So when you're designing an experiment, don't make a prediction for a five-way interaction because no one will understand what it, what it means. So basically, right, cause these variables have to be to understand interactions, you, you have to consider all these things in parallel. And you also see this in like object tracking experiments that basically people can't track more than 4 objects at once. The sort of, you know, there's actually like, considering things interacting, 4 things is just like the upper of all human capacity. Um Now That is different when you have deep knowledge of something because then you've chunked big things into units, so then it's 4 things at the level of your knowledge, right? But when, but with physical graph physical variables like this, you can't, he sort of designed these experiments where you can't really chunk, you can't really do the chunking. Right So Um, Andrews and Holford, 2002, have a paper, which I'm gonna give you one quick example. Basically showing that children younger than 5 are very bad at considering relations between multiple variables at once. So I was saying that like, basically no one can understand more than a 4-way interaction. Children under 5 just can't even really do, not that you would show them a graph, but like the equivalent of that, even like really a two-way interaction. Um, and they sort of, and they try to argue that things like the dimensional change, card sorting tasks, they try to argue that actually all these other tasks are really all about working memory, is their sort of position, um. So you can look, so they look, he looks across all, he sort of ways of defining the relational complexity in any given task and sort of showing that across tasks, there's a big change around 5 years old. So I'll give you an example of like a a classification task. So let's say you were, you had to sort of learn to put these different squares into different categories, A and B, right? And if you have this type of setup, It's very easy to do, because you just go, OK, dark squares are B and light squares are A. Right? But if you, if you make the, if you make it this way, where it's light. Small squares are A and dark big squares are A, but light big squares are B and dark, small squares are B, right? That's much, much harder. And kids under 5, like can't really learn to categorize objects, categorize things like this. Um, you know, of course, there's individual differences, etc. I'm speaking in generalizations here, um, as we do in experimental psychology, right? But, um, But that's sort of, that's so just sort of you're flipping these dimensions, and then they sort of shows that across all these different tasks. Kids until they're around 5 just can't handle these types of uh complexities. Uh, all right. So working memories are critical of for learning complex concepts, right? But high-quality knowledge reduces working memory load and problem solving, right? And we've talked about this before, so with the higher quality stuff in mind, you sort of can juggle, you know, a bit. There's sort of less to sort of juggle with the same amount of information. For example, the classic chess expert stuff showing that they have entire sequences of moves, you know, in memory directly allows them to kind of access it without really loading, overloading their working memory. Oh yeah, that's I also talked about this, where why old people can function might predict given decline in PFC, right? So it's actually, there was this interesting sort of study with sort of with sort of people over 60 in their 60s and 70s and 80s who played, I think Go was the game that they had become expert in, and you sort of gave them a working memory test, like in Go, like, in terms of like how many go moves could they kind of think ahead. Then they showed no cognitive decline in their working memory, but when you made it like a new like a new, like a, like a new game, like how many, you know, pieces could you play in this new game, how many sequences of moves could you play, then you saw this big age effect with the older people are much worse than the younger people, right? So if it's like something you have experience in, you can sort of reason without sapping into these working memory into this working memory capacity. Um, but again, this also suggests why executive function is so critical in childhood, because you need it to acquire the high quality knowledge in the first place. You're not gonna get really good high-quality representations of a game like Go or whatever or math or whatever it is, if you don't have the executive function, working memory capacity to build that knowledge. Um, so, but you can see these knowledge interact, these knowledge effects from very early on. So, Goswami and Brown, 1990, gave, gave three year olds some very simple analogies with familiar relations, like a bread is to a slice of bread as a lemon is to a slice of lemon. Now, Piaget considered analogy a pre-operational, uh sorry, analogy was a form of an operation, and Piaget published works on basically arguing that kids couldn't solve analogies until they were over 6 or 7 when they were in the operational phase. However, when he made the the relation, but however, people sort of noticed that the relations that they had to reason with were pretty unfamiliar to the, to the younger kids. You can make, and so you can make the relations more familiar, then they're capable of. Doing this supposed sort of operation that they should be they should be incapable of at this age. So again, your knowledge, so it's, it's a very early example of how your knowledge can sort of help you overcome uh what might be sort of cognitive capacity limitations. So, one way to talk about this is a kind of Talking about these interactions as the what's the basic driver of cognitive development. Right, so I would update Page's sort of notions that basically what's improving, what's increasing throughout childhood in terms of cognition is both your executive function and your knowledge. Right? You're know, you're learning more and more stuff and your brain's being connected up in more sort of powerful ways. Right? And your thinking and problem solving and all the stuff you do in school relies on both your knowledge and your executive ability. So rather than thinking there are these discrete stages that Page talks about, we have a sort of a continual development of both. But also then, but your knowledge is very domain specific, so you can reason about, you know, so you can look like you have better working memory or something like that in a task you have a lot of knowledge with, and it looks like it's worse in a task where there's not. That's why typically when we do these executive function experiments, they're completely novel tasks that no one's seen before. Because you want to get at this kind of novelty ability, but when you're looking in the real world, your experience with something allows you to sort of think much better with it. So both of these are kind of the two drivers of, of cognitive change throughout childhood. So right, so these two factors together, not stage transitions, account for cognitive improvements over development. All right. That just to help. Uh, connected back to PSJ. All right, so now we're gonna talk about SES and executive function interventions. Um So Much like Many things, right? So kids from low socioeconomic status homes are at risk for executive function uh deficits. Right? And this definitely relates to all the stuff that we, this, and the stuff, the kind of takeaways from this are gonna be pretty similar to the takeaways from the like AB Cedarian uh preschool intervention uh tutorial about sort of early risk and, and sort of enriching experiences to kind of overcome that early risk. Right, so lower SES children have lower executive functions across the board, and this is predictive of educational longitudinal outcomes. Stress specifically affects, whoops I should say, effects, not effects, PFC and executive functions. Right, lack of stimulation and stress hinder PFC growth, and this is the sort of summaries of that Hackman and Farrah Fara paper. Right, so often in these low SES experience, there's both stress but also less kind of enrichment activities. So there's sort of a, so, you know, there's sort of more stress and the lack of stimulation in the positive way go together. Executive function and language are the primary issues that connect SES and achievement, right? So also one of the things that the thing of notice here is that classic language brain areas like Broca's area, which I'm sure everyone learned about in like intro to neuroscience or whatever, is, is a frontal region very involved in in verbal working memory. So you can, you know, this is the frontal lobes. Uh, it's quite connected to executive functions. So, I'll give you a few examples of executive function interventions. Some of these were promising and haven't been followed up with, and so now I'm slightly more skeptical, but. For example, there's one, there was a, there was, so there was, there was, there's one paper using a small sample showing that actually traditional martial arts trainings with a focus on discipline and self-control, actually transfers to other executive functions, measures. So you, this isn't just like taking a bunch of kids and teaching them how to fight each other, but particularly around like the traditions of self-control that go along with martial arts. So, there was excitement around these kind of brain training computer programs, right? Where, where it kind of at first it looked like, um, you know, doing like working memory tasks, like working memory games on a computer really were increasing kids' working memory capacity and things like that. But a lot of those things haven't really replicated and panned out, unfortunately. Now, the AB Cedarian study was not an executive function study, right? The executive function, you know, but they were massive IQ gains, uh, and executive function and fluid intelligence are very highly correlated with each other. Uh, and so we should, we can assume that that would have, that type of enrichment would have, if they had measured it. would have sort of shown such things. But what I'm gonna focus on in that paper that I recommend is called the Tools of the Mind Curriculum. Which is a kind of, which is which is a preschool and kindergarten curriculum that's designed to improve executive function based on Vergotsky and theories of self-control. So, the goal is to create a curriculum that any pre-K teacher could implement, right? It doesn't need special, you know, so it doesn't really need lots of special training or equipment, right? You don't need lots of, you don't, you, right, you can't like have everyone just be teaching martial every preschool teacher be teaching martial arts or something. Now, why is it Vygotskian? So, it's a Vygotskian structured play-based curriculum. The one of the Vygotskian principles, which we talked about a little bit, was the idea that you self-regulate with language, right? So if you recall, there was, he had this notion that language is this tool that culture provides us to improve our thinking. And one way that it does this is by giving us systems of self-control. Right, so you have, so you say things out loud, so early on development, Vergotsky imagines people saying things out loud. Uh, and then kind of internalizing that. And so the voice inside your head is this internalization of your speaking, which you use to help regulate your behavior, right? So if you have, you know, you might tell yourself, don't yell at him, right, to sort of regulate yourself, you know, you might think that in your mind, serenity now, right? You might sort of think this, you know, internally to suppress whatever, you know, impulse you might have. Right, so we'll go through the specifics in here. It's not just saying it's raining now. So, um, so this study used a low-income urban public school system. They agreed to test this curriculum. Against when it's designed to improve early literacy. So the control condition wasn't, was also thought, you know, was designed specifically, these kids are having, are entering kindergarten with very low, you know, without the sort of pre-literacy skills that you need to start reading, without some of these early language skills, so we're gonna try to kind of help them in, in, in preschool, and that was the control condition against these tools of the mind curriculum. But after some time, All the schools started using tools because the kids, the, the behavior in the class was so much better that the control condition abandoned what they were doing and started adapting the tools condition, right? So the way that works, or this works in trials as well, if you, you know, if you're trialing a new cancer drug, and everyone that can, and everyone in the new drug condition is surviving and people in the control condition are dying, you just like give everyone the drug, right? Once it's sort of clear that like this thing is better, you can get everyone the thing that's helping. Um, right, and so there was much less stress and behavior problems in the tools classrooms. And then there also is some evidence that tools, kids go on to have improved literacy and math skills. So what are these curriculum, what do these look like? Uh, so some of them, so a lot of these just, so, so during the tools of my activity, buddy reading, all children get a picture book and are told to take turns telling a story that goes with their book to one another in pairs. Turn the book's pages and pointing at the pictures as the story progresses. Initially, all want to tell their story, none want to listen. The teacher gives one child per pair a drawing of lips, and the other a drawing of an ear, explaining that ears don't talk, ears listen. With a concrete graphic symbol to refer to, preschools with the ear inhibit talking, wait their turn, and listen. Children then trade drawings and roles, thus learning to enact the social norms of turn taking and waiting one's turn. The visual aids remind children who is doing what. After only a few months, the pictures are no longer needed, and they're able to just take turns telling stories without the pictures. Sounds like you probably all know people who could use that sometime as well, who aren't children. So. During a during a math activity, again done in pairs, one child has a hand and counts out objects with the other child checks where the counting has been correct. The second child serving as a regulator of the first child's performance. The child who is the checker waits until the first child finishes out the number of objects, then using a check-in sheet, makes sure the numbers are correct. This supports self-reflection as well as inhibition. The child who checks inhibits the desire to act and until it's his or her turn, the counter engages in self-reflection while waiting. Watching the checking, reflecting on his or her previous answer, thinking about whether it's correct or not, reliving one's action by watching someone check is practice and self-reflection on action, a meta-cognitive aspect of executive function. So, right, so a lot of the, oh yeah, so private speech to regulate oneself and encourage cognitive flexibility. So lots of things. So a pattern movement game. Children will show a pattern such as A, B, A, B, B A represented by shapes, triangle, square, triangle, square, square, triangle. Teacher assigns specific movements to each shape, so you could be like, you know, wave your right hand in the air every time it's a triangle, you know, kick out your left leg every time it's square or something like that. And then they have to sort of go through the pattern and do these things. Right, so this involves working memory, having to keep these rules in their mind, using it to regulate their behavior, etc. Um, a bunch more of these examples. I don't have to sort of go through all of them, but they're basically a bunch of these like. Examples that all involve sort of scaffolds to right behavior regulation that you over time internalize and you no longer need the scaffolds. All right, so how do they now test the effectiveness of this? So in the study at the end of the year, they gave them a few executive function computerized tasks, which they had no experience with. And to see, you know, to compare the control condition to the experimental, and even though everyone started doing their control, even though the control condition eventually switched to the experimental, there still was enough time difference to sort of see these differences. We'll see. So, here is an attentional control. Correct response and then, you know, so you have two shapes and you go, which shape is on the inside? One button is circle, one button is triangle, right? So the circles on the inside, you do the triangle. Then another one is what's on the outside, so you click the one that's on the outside. But then the sort of the, the hard part is that pink, you know, signals outside and blue signals. Inside, and you have to sort of switch back and forth what rule you're following, right? And we sort of saw that kids can be bad at like this rule switching. Another one is the dots, the the dots and so when they see a heart, all right, so, so if they see a heart, you have to hit a button on the on the side of the heart. If you see a flower, or is it a 0.0 no, dots are using hearts and flowers, oh yeah, whatever, hearts and flowers. So a flower, you have to put a button on the opposite side, right? So if you see a flower on the left, you push right. If you see a flower on the right, you push left, right? If you see a heart on the left, you put left. You put a heart on the right, you push right. And then if you're going back and forth, you see a flower, then you see a heart, you're switching back and forth and having to remember which is the one that is like the opposite one and which is the one that's like the one I do the right side of, right? And so you have to, so this is actually a pretty hard task, and they're getting, you know, 5 year olds, 4 or 5 year olds to do it. Right, you have to maintain multiple rules in your mind, you have to switch between rules, you have to inhibit your responses. And What we're kind of, right, so the gray bars are the kids from the tool who did the tools in the mind. Uh, curriculum and the red bars are their control, uh. Condition and we're seeing that. You get the bigger differences, the more demanding it is, right? So the dots, when you're mixing back and forth between the congruent and incongruent and the reverse, right? So what the more kind of complex, you make the task, the more switching and stuff you put into it, the bigger the effect is for the advantage of the tools of the mind curriculum. Right, this is just correct responses on the Y axis. Um Of About. No, no, no, they, they, none of these kids have seen these tasks before. They're just doing, they just are the tools of the mind curriculum. The these are the assessments, these are the assessments of their executive function. All their tools of the mind were all these other games that they were doing, like the year, the taking turns, all of the taking turns games. So is that the spending the year doing all these taking turns games. Made them much better at doing these computerized assessments. Yeah, kids have been in the program, but they haven't seen the, but they hadn't seen these tests. Utah. Yeah, yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry, yeah. Oh, the, the Right, so dots task, right? So incongruent, so that's the so, so in the incongruent version, it's just the version where everything is a flower and they always just hit the opposite button. The dots mixed is when trials switch between congruent and incongruent. So some trials have to do the opposite and some trials you do the not opposite. Right, so the switching back and forth makes it more demanding, because it even though it's hard to do it incongruent for a 4 year old, if you just go left means right, if you have the same one every trial, you can kind of get used to it, so it's not as hard as having to switch back and forth. And the same thing here with the flanker and the reverse flanker, where flanker is, for I guess the default thing must be to wanna, for some reason, I wouldn't intuit this, but it seems like it must be easier to focus on the inside shape than the outside shape in terms of what button to press. But so the like, you know, reverse flankers when you're focusing on the outside shape and the standard flankers and it, it's called flanker cause it's based off of another task that has There's no reason looking at this why it should be called the flanker, but there's a sort of a history in the terms that people are using for these tasks, um, cause there's, there's nothing flanking anything in this case. Um, but it's basically just like the harder version is, uh, the reverse flanker rather than the flanker. That makes, yeah. So Since 2007. Uh, there was early, so there, so there's sort of a history of this. So this paper came out and everyone's like, this is great, we can like help all these kids. And then the basic thing happened where other people tried to doing it and the effects sort of seemed to go away. But part of it had to do with how other school systems, sometimes when you try to Scale and educational intervention, there's all this change in how well people do it. So there's like another school, like I remember the schools in North North Carolina, like didn't replicate the effect, and people kind of said, well, that school system didn't really like do it properly, and so we don't know if that's why they didn't replicate the effect. So a systematic review in 2017 showed there was some evidence that's tool on tools of the mind, showed that there was some sort of evidence, but the evidence wasn't that great if you looked across all the different studies. However, since then, In 2018, a randomized controlled trial of a kindergarten program showed improved socio-emotional outcomes that were related to sort of reducing aggressive behavior were sort of were better after Tools of the Mind. Um, also looked at a kindergarten program looking at benefits in literacy as well as kind of in-class executive function grant, like, like the ability, like just observing students paying attention to what's happening in class increased. So, so there, there, the, the evidence wasn't great, but now there does appear to be more and I, I can check back in. There's probably a couple more publications in the last couple of years as well. So what are the, the principles here. The biggest benefits are are for children with the biggest deficits, right? You can't, you know, again, these are for children who are at risk. If you just give these types of, um, if you just give some of these interventions to kids who aren't at risk for anything, it's not necessarily gonna improve it. This is more about sort of, uh, this is more about undoing risk than it is creating like super executive functioning children. And time-intensive and adaptive training is critical. So in these curriculums, you don't, you, you, there are ways of sort of escalating the diff the, the, the, the intensity of the task, even removing the scaffolds, right? Now you have to do this without the little ears and the mouths. You have to do it on your own, that's sort of making it harder. So you have to kind of like adapt it and make it harder as time goes on. Alright, summary. From 3 to 5 years of age, there are drastic changes in prefrontal function, but it continues into their early 20s. Inhibitory to control, task switching slash cognitive flexibility and working memory are the kind of primary subcomponents. This is critical for emotion regulation, social appropriateness, learning complex concepts in school. EFs during early childhood predict longitudinal outcomes and many domains of achievement in life, which is what the tutorial is about this week, or at least one of those papers. Right, low SES children are at risk from stressful environments to have executive function deficits, but interventions so promised, such as tools in the mind to improve at-risk children's executive functions. All right, so let's have a 5 minute break.