SPEAKER 2Hello. I'm guessing. Uh, sure, um, yeah, um, I'm after looking at like the instructions and stuff, I'm not entirely sure maybe what the structure. Um, yeah, so it should look like, because I know we, we need like a, I think it was like abstract summary and then obviously our like references. Yeah, it's kind of up to you to make theSPEAKER 0structure, but it's not, it's not like an APA research report where the structure is very clear. It's sort of like up to you to figure out the best way to structure it, like, you know, so the I put up the rubric. So you can see like what are the components that we're looking for, but how to actually weave it all together is sort of up to you to do.SPEAKER 2And that also include flexibility around using visual things like grass.SPEAKER 0Sure, yeah, that's not required to use graphs, but yeah, you can, yeah, you could, yeah, so right, so total, so, so right, yeah, so there's no preset. There's not like, so we have, we have in the rubric marking for like how coherent. And how it all fits together, but there's no preordained right way to do that, right?SPEAKER 2It's very specific to because part of it has toSPEAKER 0do with specific topic that you have, right? Like some topic might be put together differently than aSPEAKER 2different topic, yeah, yeah, um, I'm very. I'm starting a bit late, but right now I'm doing ADHD. Um, I'm very interested in ADHD. That's good. It's a very great week for you. I was like oh. I'm interested in. Oh yeah, I'm glad we got one week in there. I, I was just wondering in terms of. Are we allowed to, like, of course not in the same way that we, it's done in tutorials and lectures but use like similar like the same references that are, uh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I assume you'll have to doSPEAKER 0references also on it, but you're certainly allowed to use the references from the tutorial lecture, yeah, OK, OK, OK,SPEAKER 2yeah, let's check it. Yeah. So how exactly do I end up separating from. it's like it needed in order to develop it's so like, yeah, I mean part of it just has toSPEAKER 0do with literally well.SPEAKER 2Part of it has to do with just a differentSPEAKER 0sort of traditions where executive function, so intelligence doesn't have any, it's sort of process agnostics in a way, right? Intelligence tests are more just about statistically determinating between people,SPEAKER 2right, like a psychometric way, right?SPEAKER 0But you can sort of cognitively do whatever it is,SPEAKER 2you know, that discrimination.SPEAKER 0Like physical discrimination doesn't really care what the cognitive processSPEAKER 2was that like made people better or worse. It's just that it's just the right?SPEAKER 0It's like into the executive function is more to sit is more about like what are the cognitive processes thatSPEAKER 2are important.SPEAKER 0And so then people go, oh, the cognitive processes of executive function are actually, it turns out intelligence tests like whose intelligence are very much tapping into working memory andSPEAKER 2cognitive flexibility.SPEAKER 0You kind of need these processes to like solve intelligenceSPEAKER 2tests problem.SPEAKER 0But they kind of are coming from these different traditions. In addition, to certain connotations because, because of the history of like eugenics and things like that, and with intelligence, executive function allows us to talk about differences in kids without having the connotation of like this is a geneticallySPEAKER 2inferior person even though there's lots of strong genetic basisSPEAKER 0for executive function, but it kind of allows us toSPEAKER 2kind of break away from those like. Right, yeah, is it directly tied to. Well, potentially, potentially, yeah, it's just it's just out, right? It's not, yeah, yeah, yeah, would you then say they are intelligent because they can verbally explain what goes here versus what goes here. But their outcome was incorrect. So that that's why the executive company. Well, intelligence tests at 3 also another thing is that you can't really get really big reliable intelligence tests atSPEAKER 0that young don't really do very much.SPEAKER 2It, it's really like, so I mean also the assessments,SPEAKER 0even they're very related to each other, the assessments themselves.SPEAKER 2I don't know exactly what they do, but often with young kids they just seem to heavier. Because it's sort of a stand-in for.SPEAKER 0But there are probably are aspects of a full intelligenceSPEAKER 2battery that has cognitive flexibility type of things. So if you start looking through intelligence batteries and looking at all the different tasks, you might be like, oh,SPEAKER 0this one's like basically a work coming into the school. Like this one's basically, or, you know, or so there's sort of like a convergence, there's also like a convergenceSPEAKER 2coming from like different angles. Does that help. It's kind of that in order to like distinguish between an outcome versus a, yeah, exactly, yeah yeah yeah. Yeah, but there's a lot of overlap.SPEAKER 0It's, it's really just people like different subareas of psychology kind of doing their own thing, and then people are kind of like, oh, maybe they should go together in some way. So it's sort of, yeah, there's not like there's no like master plan of how all these things should comeSPEAKER 2together. They all kind of crop up with their own weird idiosyncratic histories, and you kind of have to make sense of them later, yeah. Yeah, yeah, no problem. Yeah. Oh yeah, OK. Sorry. Hello everyone.SPEAKER 0So now we are transitioning to uh language development. Um, right, so we see how this goes. So now we have a few lectures on language development before our final class on culture.SPEAKER 2Yes So, these readings aren't really for this one, it'sSPEAKER 0for next week. So the way the language development lecture, 3 lectures work, well, there's 1 and then 2 next time, is this is gonna kind of be like kind of a theoretical in a way. We're sort of talking about the general process of language development. And then the next time we're gonna do our familiar back and forth between kind of nativist accounts of language development and constructivist accounts of language development. Um, and these readings are about that, but none of that's relevant for today yet. All right, so today we're gonna talk about just the sort of, some of the basics of the trajectories of language of language learning. Um, Right. So why do we, we, we spend a bunch of time on language. It's pretty common throughout, right? So in addition to these three lectures on language, we've talked about language kind of throughout. We've talked about language and cognition last week and abstract concepts. The, you know, Abadea Cedarian Project focuses a lot on language as a way to support, um, as a way to support, uh, cognitive development. The Vygotsky programs we were just talking about executive function are very sort of language-focused, right? So, Um, language is, is, is sort of both, you know, and these other domains, we're looking at it more, it's sort of languages functions for other stuff, right? Like how it involves us in socializing, problem solving, cultural transmission, but also the language structure, it's, but this time we're gonna focus more on the kind of language internal to itself. Right? And so some people have thought language is really is sort of shows you the critical difference between humans and other animals. There's a structural difference, you can sort of capture human, what's special about humans by looking at the structure of language and how it differs from animal communication. And this is the sort of key thing that in language is kind of a key thing that has led to humans civilization and sort of dominance and now destruction of the planet. Um, So if we're looking at uh language, so we, we, when we're analyzing language itself, we can sort of analyze it into these four kind of components or 4 kinds of dimensions, uh, levels of analysis. Right, so phonology has to do with the, the sound structure, it's what sounds and combinations are admissible in a language, right? The semantics has to do with the meanings, right, syntax is the kind of structure of the grammar of how we put words together. And pragmatics are like social conventions about language use, like, you know, how something is polite, something else is rude, things like that. So you can sort of, and so people when they're looking at language development, they look at all four of these dimensions. Um So a side note is that. When people sort of think about grammar, they might think about when they were in primary school, they were sort of being told what they were doing was like the wrong use of, you know, was ungrammatical or something like that. Like, don't end a sentence with a preposition or don't write with a passive voice, right? This is what it is called is prescriptivism, where you're sort of talking about what the norms of how people ought to speak or ought to write. Linguistics and and and psycholinguistics is not really concerned with proper usage in this sense, but our concern is, is more describing how people actually do things, right? So for example, could you imagine like looking at a bird song, I mean, like that bird sang that song wrong. Right. Um And that's more, now, of course, that doesn't mean you shouldn't be concerned with proper usage, right? When you're writing, you know, if you're writing in it, you're writing a formal letter to, you know, your wife while you're at sea, uh, in the navy or something, so people write letters, right? Uh, you know, you might wanna write it in a formal way to, for prosperity for later. I don't know. So it's all kind of, or if you're, if you're writing a, you know, a, a, uh, email to get a job, you probably wanna use, you probably wanna consider the proper sort of certain type of usage of language in this email rather than how you might be in a group chat with your friends, right? So it's not that there's anything wrong with that. And also, you can think about how to improve your writing based on these kind of prescriptivist notions, cause some of these things do have to do with what makes things easier to understand. But that's not what we're concerned with here. The syntax is just the, the basic structure of the language, not like the right way to do things. So the problem of language learning. Now there's, there's problems of language learning at all these levels of of description. For example, infants must learn what sounds their languages use. For example, R and L are two distinct sounds in English, but not in Japanese. You must parse the continuous speech stream into words, right? We hear gaps in the word, when we're listening to each other speak in our language, it kind of feels obvious where one, where one word ends and another word begins, but just listen to language from another, just listen to speech from another language. You're just like, it's just a constant string of sounds. You know, people take breaths or whatever, but there's way more, uh, there's not nearly as much pausing as it seems like there is. So infants don't speak any language, how can they find where the words are? They have to let you learn, so as adults, we all speak over like 20,000+ words. So kids have to learn every one of them. You have to learn the rules of putting words together. So for example, in English, verbs tend to be in the middle of sentences like I kick the ball, but in Korean, it'd be the, like something like the equivalent of I the ball kicked, to figure out what, how your language works. There's also literal versus social conventions of language, right? Literal versus figurative, right? What type of metaphors you use, right? When you speak a second language, you kind of real, you learn a second language, you realize how many weird idioms are full of language. You don't even think about how many kind of expressions you use that are non-literal all the time. Then you like listen to another language and you're like, what is, when you learn another language, you're like, what are all these weird metaphors everyone's using all the time, all right? So it's a hierarch language is a hierarchical system. What does that mean? It's componential and compositional, so it's full of these components that we piece together into these larger structures. At each level of description, there's a finite set of units that get combined productively with a finite set of rules. So, for example, speech sounds become syllables, become words, become sentences, become discourses or conversations. Not any two sounds can combine to make a syllable, right? So S and T come together in English, D and F do not go together in English. So I'm aware, we don't say, right? We did lots of words that go ta. Right, some combinations of words not go together, for example, words, combinations, some of go not do. Uh, not, not any two sentences go together, make a coherent discourse. So if Bill says, I'm Bill, nice to meet you, Fred says, Chomsky's media criticism has shown the documentary manufacturing consent as linguistic theory united by assuming a deep structure beneath the perceivable structure that explains what we can perceive. Right? So if you just sort of said that when you first met someone, someone would think you were weird. Right, so, because of these constraints, but however, because of these constraints, uh, language is infinitely productive. So we'll explain how, as well. So, so well, so people will often think of constraints as kind of, it kind of sounds like it's limiting you, but actually, if there were no constraints on what words could go together, you wouldn't be able to understand anything anyone's saying, right? If you change the sequence of words around, you're saying something else, right? But having these rules actually allows you to say an infinite number of things. And the key to sort of the Chom the Chomsky and insight. Is that we can say, every one of us is capable of saying an infinite number of things that no one else has ever said before. All right, so let's start with infant speech perception. So, come basic descriptions, infant vocalizations, at 2 month olds, infant's coo. These are simple speech sounds like goo and ah, and, and doing some vocal gymnastics like smacks, clicks, and sort of bubbles. Over the first few months, they get improved motor control of these vocalizations. They imitate the sounds of their partners. So for example, they might, so there's evidence that 2 month old infants will make higher pitched sounds when they're with their mom and lower pitched sounds when they're with their dad. And then over this time there's an increase in vocal complexity. And by 6 month olds, they are babbling. Which is repeated consonant vowel patterns that become more varied like ba ba ba da da tibadu ba ba something, right? Not just like oh da, but like there are these clear sort of syllables being produced. And then around 10 months of age, they're only saying, only making syllables that would appear in their actual native language. While earlier they might make sounds that and they're babbling that aren't really, you know, they still make weird sounds, but like, their babbling would sort of contain some sounds, perhaps not in their language, and they're over time, their babbling becomes more and more word-like in their native language. And then around 12 months of age, they start saying words. This is of course just an average view of an infant that is not in this exact trajectory, that's not necessarily a problem. So Let's see.SPEAKER 2Oh, Yeah, so, so if you're raised in a multilingualSPEAKER 0environment, kids will learn both languages, um, and these things around and their babbling will reflect both languages, most likely, yeah. Yeah, so, yeah, so there's, I, as far as I'm aware, there's no uh problem. There are no language delays with being around multilinguals. So if you're assessing the, so the problem is, so if, if you're kind of keeping track of kids' language in like bilingual homes, and you're looking at vocabulary counts, for example, and you're counting one. Language at a time, it might look like, say, in English, if they're in a home that speaks sort of English and Mandarin or something, it might look like they have a, they might have a smaller English vocabulary, that doesn't mean they have a smaller vocabulary overall if you're encountering the words from both languages. Right, and so there are, but if you look overall over the trajectory of, you know, 5 years, 6 years, there's no, there's no problem. There's no, there's no, like there's no reason, there's no reason to avoid exposing children to multiple languages out of fear that it will somehow slow their development, is one way to put it. Um, if anything, it's just probably better to learn multiple languages, right? If you're American, you can kind of go around the world, you know, if you speak English, you go around the world, everyone has to talk to you, you know, you'll bomb them or something. So it's like, you know, it's fine, everyone speaks English, right? But there's always advantages to speaking multiple. Languages, um, right? And there's no problem with with kids being exposed to multiple languages. There's some ideas, there's also some ideas that like, you should be signing to kids because they can like, learn sign language faster. It's unclear if that's, that's mainly made up. Um, there's nothing nothing wrong with signing to kids. It's great, signed to kids, but it's like the idea that this is gonna like accelerate their language learning isn't, there's not really evidence. For that either. Um I mean, I don't know, new evidence comes out all the time, but last time I checked, there wasn't good evidence for that. What is the point of this sound? All right, so. Live, live, live. That is speech. Do you recognize that as speech? That is non-speech. And, but it's kind of like complex, it's kind of speechish, it's sort of complex. There's like, you know, uh, there's, you know, rising pitch contours, right? So, In, so newborn babies who are who you tend to, who aren't having their eyes open, you can measure kind of like looking time as a sign of interest. You can look at how, like, you give them a pacifier they can suck on and their rate of sucking is, is like a, like they suck faster when they're more interested in something. Right, and so the newborn infants will suck faster to speech than non-speech. Basically the idea is that human babies like speech, is the idea. Right? Also, you can show they discriminate their native language, the, the, the pitch contours. So prosody is the word that means like the pitch contours of your language, right? So, you know, you have different pitch contours when you are asking a question versus saying a statement, right? And languages vary in their pitch contours, and newborn infants like their native language more. They've already been exposed, they've, you know, they can hear in the womb, and they've already sort of learned the basic pitch contours of their native language by the time they're born. Um So Uh, so an infant's speech perception, a critical thing we talk about is categorical perception of stimuli. So there's all kinds of, if you look about the sound waves, so we're thinking about like the physical signal of the sound of us talking. Some of these variations are meaningful, and some of them are not, right? So for example, you know, if you're doing a pitch contour of like a question versus a statement. The vowel sounds you're making are are literally like a different sound, but we can still perceive them as the same vowel, right? But other times, you change the acoustics of the sound you make, and it's now a new vowel. Right? Or also my voice is a different level of highness, high pitchedness or lowness than someone else's voice. But you have to be able to hear that when I say a sound and you say a sound, even though acoustically they're quite different in some ways, you have to be able to recognize them as the same sound or you couldn't learn any words. Right? And so what people sort of talk about is that basically, there's all these sort of, there's all this variation in speech sounds, but you infants have to kind of be able to hone in on which is the variation that kind of matters and which is the variation in acoustic stimuli that like doesn't matter. Also, not further, not all languages use the same contrastive sounds. So you all, so you're not, you have to do this generally, but we have to do this specifically to your language. You have to learn that these, these sound properties matter for my language. You know, the kid isn't like, this is my language, it's just what they're exposed to, right? But they still have to figure out through their exposure, rather than, you know, and it's different for different languages. And again, if you're exposed to multiple languages, then you would just adapt to that. So phonemes, which are individual speech sounds like duh and ba, are individual speech sounds, those are phonemes. Um, there's some, there's some. You have to sort of draw the line of what the difference is between these sounds in the right places. So I'll give you, now hopefully this just Works properly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Da da da. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You think those are all the same sound? Yeah, I see some nods. Good. Good, good, good. tat tat tat. Da da da. These are different sounds, right? At at at. Damn it. Come on. Ah, close enough. All right. Oh, now it's showing up over here, huh? Yeah, yeah. Right, so So Da and Tay. You're, so the only difference between da and ta is the timing between your, the release. So if you say da ta, think about what your tongue is doing, right? It's like touching the top of your mouth. You go da and tah, your tongue is touching, I believe what's called the this little ridge, but a little bit behind your teeth, right? You're, and you just make the sound, you go from touching it to releasing the air. Right? Now, the difference between da and ta is how is when your vocal cords vibrate in relationship to when you release the air from the top of your mouth. Now, the, the number of milliseconds, uh, in between the two things, right? And so, the first two sounds differed in 20 milliseconds of distinction between your vocal cords. So 0 milliseconds is like your vocal cords have released at the same. Time as ah the air being released 20 milliseconds is 20 milliseconds later, 40 milliseconds is another 20 milliseconds later, and 60 milliseconds is another 20 milliseconds later. But in between 20 and 40, you shift from hearing a da to hearing a ta. Even though the difference between the first two das acoustically was equivalent to the difference between the first two, between the da and theta acoustically, which is equivalent to the latter two tas, right? The acoustic difference is the same across these three pairs, but in the middle pair, we've crossed the category boundary of the phonemes, and now we perceive it differently. All right. So, the idea is that the first two kind of sound the same. So the the acoustic, if you were to like look at a visual representation of the acoustics, the difference in the first two, it looks the same as the difference in the second two, it looks the same as the difference in the third two, and yet, where what we perceive is the same and different varies. So, all right, This was first done with adults. How about with infants? So this 1971 paper showed that infants seem to be doing this from the first days of life. This is again a a high amplitude sucking procedure where. You habituate, you can habituate to one sound by hearing, by, you know, they're, they're sucking at first, then they reduce their sucking. As they hear the sound over and over again, you change the sound and they start sucking more again, just like habituation studies would do with vision, right? Um, but these are, these are like 2 days old infants. Now what you're seeing here, phonemic change, this is going, this is going like from da to ta, like what you hear is it going from da to ta, right? They habituate, then they go up again, novelty effect. Acoustic change, but without, right, this is like dah but a different da, right? They stay down low. Right, they're staying down low, they're not showing a novelty preference, they think it's the same. So the, the infant's perception of these sounds is the same as yours, presumably. I forget what that controls about. Don't worry about it. Right, so. So then what changes? Well, infants show what we call categorical perception of the world's, of all the world's languages in the first half of the 1st year of life. Right? So for example, Hindi has multiple has multiple sounds that in English we perceive as D. There's like a back of the mouth D, like middle of the mouth, there's like multiple D's. When we say D, there it's like near the front of our tongue goes to the front of our mouth, and there's a Hin another Hindi D that's like at the back of our mouth is our tongue. And to people who speak Hindi, these are definitely different sounds, but to English speakers, it's all sounds like a D. Right? This is similar to Japanese people not perceiving the difference between R and L, where R and L are distinct sounds to English. So it's not like one language necessarily has more distinctions than another. There's different sets of distinctions, even though it is true that, like, I feel like Hawaiian has very few sounds. There are some languages that have fewer sounds, but that's not the point. All right, so, um, infants show. Categorical perception across all the world's languages sounds in the first half of the year, but by 10 months of age, you they stop showing discrimination between the sounds that their language stops, uh, doesn't use. So a 6 month old English infant. Would perceive the difference in the two Hindi D's, but a 10 month old. Infant in, you know, around English would no longer perceive that difference. Is the, is the pattern, that they've learned what sounds are. Now, what's surprising about this is that like they're not, there's, there's very little evidence that they're, that they're understanding words at this time, but they, but the reason this, you would make this, this, you would do this is to aid your word learning. Right, cause the idea is what it means for D versus D, D where the two D's to be not the same sound, means it's like the same word if I do one or the other, right? If I say dad with one version of the D and dad with the other version of the D, you would be like, that's the same word, right? But I don't know if this is a, these are words in Hindi. I, this is actually the only thing I know about Hindi is this distinction of the D's. Yeah, so. Are they Well, they, they'd use the the adult ones, so it'd be like those, so it would be like here, where the, so where according to the adult perception, it's like D versus T. Oh, no, no, but they're, but they're gonna perceive, they, they will perceive it as well. So, so they perceive everything, they receive all the differences at at younger, and they, and they receive fewer differences later. So like if there are more subtle variations for theSPEAKER 2deep sound in some languages like in. Yeah Yeah, cause here, these are all gonna be likeSPEAKER 0the um frontal D sounds. Right, so you could, you could do this, except rather than D versus T, you could do it. I mean, this is a voice onset time uh uh distinction and the D versus other D is a, is a place in the mouth distinction, not a voice onset time distinction. So there's um. Uh Yeah, but the logic would be the same, where you would do this across the different sounds and they would show a difference, right? Where, where instead of T, now I don't know how many of these sounds they've done, it's like they took like every sound in the world, like we're gonna test this with like all the sounds, as far as like a like 3 or 4 papers with a few different languages, and like, well, it works for all those 4 sounds, so we're gonna generalize, right? It's sort of, you know, presumably you would do more than 1, but right, you would do it, you know, a a small handful of them and then feel uh confident. Um, right, does that make? Since then, so you were basically like. Cause yeah, yeah, so, so you're recording, yeah, so you're, when you're recording the stimuli, you're sort of being in very controlled settings of making sure you have like the, the full acoustic properties of the speech sounds that you're presenting to them. So you sort of know, like, for example, like you would have, you kind of have to know, like, how do you know this is 20 milliseconds? Past that, like, there are these, I forget the name of the word, but if you kind of record, there's these sort of, if you record people's sounds, like in the sound, like waves, you can kind of see where, when the vocal cords start vibrating, like in this like spectroscopy or something, I can't remember what it's called. Um, but there's like a graph, there's like a sort of form of like a graph that like has the acoustic properties plotted over time and you can kind of look at like where the like vocal cords are doing stuff. And so you could sort of use that representation to like select. Um, Stimuli. It would be a brain cha. I'm trying to remember what it, I'm sure there's been infinite FMRI on this. I can't remember what is changing, but it's basically, but it's basically a perceptual learning effect. So you're not gonna see like structural brain changes, but it's like a, it's like a, you know, it's, I mean, it's a category it's a way, it's a category learning effect, not too dissimilar from the Younger and Cohen stuff in the, in the, in a certain sense. But right, I mean, Uh, so I don't know, yeah, you would probably see a change, a functional change in response to the stimuli that was sort of correlated with a perceptual discrimination, but it's not gonna be like a major, yeah, it's not gonna be like ear. Differences. That's right. All right. So why is this adaptive, right? So every time you hear a sound, it's a slightly different qualities for across speakers, and I talked about this, learners need to learn which contrasts are functionally important for to signify different words. All right, I said that. All right, so now let's imagine a world they've solved the problem of what sounds matter to me. But then there's another issue with speech segmentation. So there's many, many properties. This is again, you know, telling where the word, where one word starts and another, where one word stops and another word starts. How do they figure out, if they wanna learn words, that they figure out like, what are the words, right? Not just which sounds are. Words and which sounds, like if you hear consecutive sounds, sometimes those consecutive sounds may be from two different words. If I say like the baby, right? Baby is one word, the is another word, and the ba is just, there's no gap between the ba, just as there's no gap between ba and B, right? But they have to figure out, no, there's a, there's a sort of word gap in there. One way is with stress patterns, is when I, we'll talk more about this next time, but words tend to only have a single stress syllable, right? So spaghetti. Right, the ge is the stress, right, if you're saying these words or dusty, right, duh has a bit more of an emphasis than sti, right? You know, it's like spaghetti, like all stressed, right? There's one word, 11 syllable is the most stressed. So if you kind of hear, if you're following things like stress patterns, you can go, well, there was a stress syllable, there was another stress syllable. In between those two syllables would have been a word boundary. So there's all kinds of patterns like that. All there's all these types of acoustic properties that infants appear to be sensitive to, cause it's unclear how else they could possibly do any of these things. Um, anyway, we'll talk about. We'll talk more about speech segmentation next time. That's just one example of how they could do it. Now word learning, now from around at from around at around age one, kids are learning about one new word a day. And then around, and then around 18 months to 2 years, they start producing one new word every hour until, like, they run out of words to learn, basically. So you keep, you know, so then you might have 20,000, some kids might have no 20,000 words by 7 or 8 years old. So you get to a certain point and your word learning slows down, not because you've become worse at word learning, there just aren't many more words to learn anymore, right? You get to a certain point and you basically learn new words from like. You know, hip hop or like reading. Technical papers or whatever it is, like, you know, there's sort of cultural sources of new vocabulary, and there's like, I'm in university, so I have to learn what the word like voice onset time, or that wasn't one word, but whatever, you know, you have to learn what like phonology means, right? You may not have heard that word before, that was like a technical word you learned at university. You get to a certain point and those are all the words, all the new words you learn because you basically have learned all the words that people use in everyday conversation, right? But then, of course, there's communities of language change. Uh, you know, there's a, there's a sociological thing of like which communities introduce new words, right? But that's, but that, but that's its own thing. Um So how do people learn words? That I don't think there's any reason to think your ability, I don't know if there's any evidence that your ability slows down. I think there's just like you're, you're, you just don't come across, as far as I can tell, you stopped coming across. Like how many times when you're reading a book, do you not know a word? If you're, you know, if you're, if it's like, obviously if you're a second language learner, it's different, but if it's your native language, you get to a point, you know, when you're a kid, you're constantly hearing words you've never heard before. Right? When you're an adult, it's pretty rare. Right. You know, I mean, you know, depending on what corner of, like, TikTok you're on, you might, right? But like, You know, but there's things like that, but generally, you're, you've kind of, um, You know, I mean, we're gonna talk about syntax. So syntax is another story about learning. There's certainly evidence that people's ability to learn new, uh, syntax declines. Um, but, uh, vocabulary learning is, is different. Um, but it's all right, but, but I mean, it's hard, it's hard to tell because you can't really experimentally manipulate. It's hard to experimentally manipulate that difference. Um Right, so we've already talked about the shape bias in word learning, but we're gonna give a few other examples of cognitive mechanisms of word learning. So children can, so a lot of these have to do with sort of social inference. Children can track the intentions of adults, including their referential intention by following gaze. So if you're in like a messy room. And the kid is, you know. If you're, if you kind of, if you're talking to a kid and you, you often will look at the thing you're talking about or things like that. There are all these sort of social cues to help kids understand. It's not just, you said a word, that word could have been literally anything. In this room, right, there are ways that they track. Like socially what you're doing. There are certain types of social inferences. So for example, one example of this is this notion of social mutual exclusivity, where people might assume that. If they hear an, if they, if they see an object that they are familiar with, and an object, you know, they, they, if they hear a new word, they'll think that's probably for something I don't know about, right? So here's a simple study where they have a fork, which kids are familiar with, and like this weird tool they've never seen before, and you just go to the 3 year old, hey, hand me the dax, right? And 95% of the 3-year-olds are like, well, the dax must be the thing that's not a fork, cause I know a fork is a fork. Right? So there are these certain types of inferences that you can make about, well, the person must mean this, right? This is one little example, but there's all kinds of kind of social processes that because children are trying to converse with you, that they use to guide their word learning. Right? And once you have a bunch of words, right, that wouldn't work if you didn't also already know hand me and the, right? But once you have a sort of certain number of words, it becomes easier and easier to learn more words on top of that. Cause there's, you sort of, you know, the context is constraining because rather than having situations we don't know any words in the sentence, you might hear a lot of sentences where you know most of the words. Um, another example, this is, oh shit, hold on, uh. Is, uh, these inferences where If you're given a few examples. Children will kind of use the we're assuming that you're labeling things in a kind of helpful way, right? So, all right, so let's say we have words for different levels of description. So on the one hand, we, we assume that words don't get the same objects don't get multiple names. We also know that's not true because, for example, you could call it like, you know, that you could call that a, what is it, a Dalmatian, you could call it a dog, you could call it a mammal, you can call it an animal. Right? So if you're hearing a new word for something, how do you know what like level of generality it is? Is, if you're saying something as a dax, dude, does dax mean like dog versus, you know, animal, or what, what level of specificity? Right? And so, And here, one of the things that people showed that people will assume given multiple examples that you're, that you're giving really informative examples. I'll see what you mean. So, so if you give 3 Dalmatians in a row, and you go, this is a Dax, that's a Dax, that's a Dax, kids might go, well, if you meant animal, if you meant something as general as animal, you wouldn't have shown me 3 Dalmatians, you may have shown me like a Dalmatian, a toucan, and a. What is that? A hippo or something? So this is down here, right? So this is like 3 different animals like a Dalmatian, a toucan, or something, and whatever that thing is. Pig. A bunny. Anyway, so that's something, right? And so, right, you know, but, but if you were to say, but if you were to do 3 different dogs, right, if you go, oh, it's a Dalmatian, if, if you say it's a Dax, a Dax, a Dax, and it's a Dalmatian, another kind of dog, and a third kind of dog, you're gonna be like, oh, Dax means dog, right? So, but of course, if you're giving 3 specific things. You, it's still logically consistent that Dalmatian means animal, right? It'd be weird if you're like, here's the animal, and here's the animal, and here's the animal, it's all the same animal, right? If you were trying to teach me animal, you would show me like all the varieties of animal, like including birds and reptiles and stuff. Right. So, kids are very sensitive to this kind of social uh appropriateness of like what is informative. So basically And what you, and what you can and how you might test this is you would then give them more examples and be like, is this a Dax, right? So for example, if they thought Dax meant Dalmatian and you show them a different type of dog, they go, that's not a Dax. If they think Dax meant animal, they go, yes, that's a Dax. They think, you know, or if they show them a cat, they think Dax mean means animal, they say yes, but they think Dax means dog and they say no. Right? So depending on the level of generality, it affects how they generalize when you show them new objects. So, sorry, to be clear, these are between subject conditions and they either get, they, they, so they all get like 3 examples, right? And the 3 examples are all of a very small category, all of the medium category, or all of the bigger category. And basically what they end up doing is generalizing based on the variety that they saw. Right, so that's what that's, so, so in the soup 3 superordinate, right? So if, if you were shown, if you were shown a whole bunch of animals, and then you were shown like more animals, you're like, yeah, that's also a Dax, it's another animal, Dax means animal, right? And they also did this with vegetables and vehicles. I'm just using the animal example because it's easier cause I'd have to say like, Different words cause, you know, that's a bell pepper to me, but it's a capsicum. Yeah, anyway, so. Um, Right. So that that's the basic idea is that they are rather than just kind of using the basic statistics of like, well, it could have been anything, they're sort of assuming that you're giving them informative examples. So they're using like how you're presenting information to them to constrain their inferences. Um, Another, uh, so another example of this was in comparison, we talked about comparison a lot, but before, so if they're learning about, um, Objects, right, so we didn't mention people have a shape bias, right? So if you give people just a single object, they're biased towards shape, right? But if you give them multiple objects with the same label that have a common texture, they'll very quickly realize this word is about texture. Right? So they're, so they're, so they're very, so if you give a couple of examples, and that applies to that last, if you give them a couple of examples, they will very rapidly figure out what the commonality is to sort of generalize their words based on it. So I'll have to quickly go through syntax. Now, at 18 months of age, not only are they, they speaking much more, they're saying much more words, they're now starting to put them together. So two-word combinations are the earliest form of syntax, right? The 1st 6 months, they just kind of say one word at a time, right, just say daddy or, you know, up or something. But they won't combine them until for a little while. However, the way they combine them are not random. If it's daddy went to work, it becomes daddy work. Right, so these are the sort of most important words of the sentence, and they're gonna be in the right order of your language. They're not gonna say work daddy. That would be something else. But they could say that, but it would be another thing. So. Um, so child maintains the most important content words and the word order. Right, So they are, so this is a sign that they are like learning language in this sense, and when they're starting to produce a syntax, they are sensitive. They, they have all these constraints on what, how many words they can string together, but they are very sensitive to how their language expresses things. some more terminology here, morphosyntax. So A lot of this is from linguistics, that's why there's suddenly all these terms, because there's a lot of terms from linguistics that are part of this. Um, morphemes are meaningful units of language. Some wards just have one like sport man or bag. Or spaghetti, it doesn't have to be one syllable. Other words are compounds of single morphemes like tug boat. Right? Also, their syntactic morphemes have syntactic function and add meaning, like plural. So like you have dog versus dogs, right? The S is adding meaning because it's changing the number of dogs you're referring to. But it also is syntactic because it, you know, changes things like verb conjugation, right? Dog is, dogs are, right? So it's morphosyntax because it, you know, you're, you're at, you're changing the grammaticalness of the words as well as their meaning. And past tense as well. So you're learning like, you know, uh, walk versus walked. The ED at the end is a morph is morphos is morphosyntaxes you're changing the tense, which is part of syntax, but also the meaning, because now you're referring to what happened in the past rather than the present. Derivational morphemes change the gradical category, so shun turns verb into an like destroy becomes destruction. Right? So that's a morpheme that changes the kind of part of speech that a word is. So how is this, how do you start learning these things? So 2 to 3 year old children show productive mastery of some basic morphology, as shown by applying them to novel words. So for example, you can just, you know, you can just show them awg, you're like, hey, this is a wog. And now there's two of them. What are, what are there two of? And they say wgs, plural, right? They've never heard the wg was just made up, they, so they, so they clearly weren't like memorizing all the words. That they've heard before, in a certain sense, because they were, or they were, they did it in a way that allowed them to generalize from what they had heard to this new example. So that's what we mean by productive mastery is that they can apply the the morpho syntax to new words. Rather than thinking, I have to uh walk means walk. I, I have to learn all the different plurals like individually. Also, there's some evidence that they overgeneralize, where they'll say tooths and mouth mouses. Before realizing that they're also irregulars and you have to kind of memorize, unfortunately, you have to sort of memorize the irregulars, like mice and teeth. There's, there's this, there's this idea that they might actually start out imitating irregulars, then learn the rule, and they they might, they might at one age say teeth, then go to tooths, and then realize, oh wait, it's actually teeth. So they kind of will like memorize stuff. Learn the rule and then have to relearn the irregulars. Focus more on syntax later, but 2 to 5, we're gonna go from um. Uh, uh Uh, from 2 to, we're gonna talk about the complexity of the we're gonna talk a lot about syntax next week, but syntactic production rapidly increases during these years, as during these sort of early childhood years where they rapidly go from only having a couple of, saying a couple of words to saying full complex sentences. And that, yeah No, we'll, we'll have to end. Oh, hold on, let me do the quiz. And just on something we just did. Uh, I don't know why I'm taking much longer than. We just did this. So what act, whoop. What accurately describes language production of 18 month olds. A, they show no syntactic competence, combining words randomly. B, they are thoroughly productive syntax forming complex utterances. C. They produce two words at a time, but most important words in the right order are produced. Right, this one we just did. So the answer is C. I could have given you time to answer, but anyway, good job. Uh, so puts the into canvas. Um, we'll get to the whole stuff on. Language creation next, cause it works in the next lecture as well, why not? So this time we actually won't, we actually will do it. Um, unlike other times where we skip stuff, we have to do, so a final point for today. Is that in pragmatic, so pragmatics, sophisticated pragmatics develops through middle to childhood along with general social cognitive abilities like advanced theory of mind abilities. Right, so things like being polite, being rude, all these other kinds of inferences you make. How, for example, so we learn how to adjust to different kinds of language, different contexts fluidly. Metaphors, use of idioms, irony, sarcasm, all these things that developed in like middle childhood. Right? All kind of, all non-literal language use requires communicative intention, right? If you don't really understand that someone's trying to be sarcastic, you won't really get it as sarcasm. You have to sort of get that they're like being sarcastic on purpose or it doesn't really count. Right? And this is so, for example, children, children with ASD often struggle with irony and metaphor, because you have to sort of realize that they're intentionally. Doing a kind of language trick. Um, right, so ASC children might otherwise have good syntax and basic and and a fine vocabulary, but sort of miss on some of these on these sort of pragmatic conventions because this is all about our kind of the sort of tacit social reasoning. Um, and then, but generally vocabularies and pra pragmatic skills keep on growing and developing. We all sometimes, you know, our pragmatic skills can always can often increase, improve in life. Sometimes we slip up and. Say the wrong, you know, say the wrong thing in the wrong context. Um, but yeah, that's fine. And next time we'll go into this humans creating language where they can cause that's connected to the nativist accounts. So we can do all that together.SPEAKER 2No problem. OK. No problem. I. OK. I. I. Like the numbers right here and so I think I'll send. I.SPEAKER 0No, that's fine. Just, just describe how you did it, you know, it'sSPEAKER 2right because these big natural data sets have to be. That's what a part of them. That's the data, right?SPEAKER 0If you're kind of, yeah, there's people who are entering data different ways. It's messy. I think it's fine if you, um. You know, yeah, so I would just describe how you did it, and then it's, I mean, you know, I could look at it and go, that's a weird thatSPEAKER 2you did. You just like I got rid of all the people who did blah blah blah.SPEAKER 0Like in theory, the way you do, you do it could, could affect what you're finding in a bad way. I mean, ideally when you're cleaning data. It increases your power, right? Ideally, if you're, you know, ideally you're kind of like these data, there's something with these data just adding noise and so it's gonna make it harder for me to see the pattern, right? So of course you can't do that. You have to be justified in how you do it. Right, you can't just be like, well, this data, this was a kid who like never explored, so I'm gonna like get rid of that, right? You don't wanna like, you know, you can't like you can't like use your research questions like as your, you know, how you select it, right? But you can't. But like if there's reasons like, oh. Right. Something like the measure of exploration I have requires repeated different options. So anyone who just did what now on the one hand, you can imagine just watching one thing is kind of the least of that exploration, but there's also no exploitation, right? They're not even watching the same thing over and over again. They just watch one thing once, right? And so, so that's totally reasonable. And so I think if you justify, if you kind of justify your choices, that seems fine.SPEAKER 2Yeah, yeah, and so I don't, it's weird because ISPEAKER 0used to put, I feel like I won't be upset if you're making this a section of the methods or a section of the results, but sometimes data can only go to the results. It's sort of like how like I probably should doubleSPEAKER 2check what APA actually says because I feel like sometimesSPEAKER 0you see it in one and you see it in the other. So personally I'm fine with these ones, but it would be a separate section line like data processing.SPEAKER 2Yeah, I was just a bit worried because I was like, well, what if it like changes like the number? Oh.SPEAKER 0But I, I mean it could, but if you're justified in removing your, if you're justified in how you're doing it that way.SPEAKER 2Yeah, yeah. Yeah, we can. Um, I'm sorry. Pro Oh. It's for example. Yeah, I Yes, yeah, yeah.