 For the last hour and a half or so, we're looking at experimental research comparing cognitive development in white slash Western kids to kids from other cultures. And then we're gonna look at a bit of indigenous Australian child development and education. So, I'm a, in the, uh, as a cognitive scientist, so cognitive science is, is this interdisciplinary endeavour that exists in different degrees depending on what you think it means for a field of study to exist. Um, Where we do a lot of stuff and on the, so here's all of our, here's all of our, this is the logo of the cognitive Science Society, and here's all our fields in cognitive science, linguistics, neuroscience, philosophy, psychology, anthropology, artificial intelligence, and education. And the one, the sort of cultural stuff is sort of at the intersection of psychology and anthropology. Um There's a couple of papers. I was, I think I forgot to add this one to the. Whatever. There's a couple of papers here. They're, they're all on the reading list. I just realised I didn't put it on the, on the canvas page, uh, appropriately, but there's some reviews, you, this one was sort of, what is like a review of, of how culture affects conceptual development. All right, so most of these papers have a white, have one group of white people compared to one group of non-white people. In any given paper, you're kind of, and, and, and you kind of just pretend that all white people are the same, um, even though that's not really true, and You know, and you very rarely compare like different non-white people to each other. That's just sort of the nature. Look, most papers just have white people, so this is already a step, a step in the right direction, right? The fact that there's like one group of non-white people in the study, right? Uh So, now, There's Now I'm sure you guys have heard some of these arguments before, but there's one, there's multiple ways in which cultures vary from each other. One way is we talk about how cultures have an individualistic focus, where we all care about sort of versus a collectivistic focus. All right. And if you were to look at. Which countries are over, now of course, countries varies, cultures varies in many ways besides this. This is one way in which people have studied cultural differences. And then you look at which countries are individualistic. It tends to be America, Canada, Australia, the northern, you know, the UK. Germany Uh, Scandinavia, also known as the countries that have produced the vast majority of psychological research, right? Now this has changing, you know, there's certainly in this century, certainly way more research papers in psychology produced in Asia than there were in the previous century, right? But there is this sort of confound where almost all the people doing psychology research are very different culturally from like the rest of the world where the psychology research isn't really done. And so there's a sort of mismatch here between what our theories are based on and what people are actually like, right? If you just purely statistically, there are more people from collectivist countries than there are individualistic countries. All right. So what do we mean by collectivism and individualism, right? So, Here, so you might say, you know, so you sort of get the sense from the names, right? But, but here's a bunch of different values like in individualism, we care about independence and freedoms and concepts like self-sufficiency and control over one's own life and striving for your own goals, and care about competition and beating others, and how unique you are, and how, you know, how much in conversation we articulate our own wants and needs. Right, and so if there were sort of survey items that you want to see how much people endorse these things, you would say things like, how much do you agree with this sentence? I always always state my opinions very clearly. Or I tend to do my own thing and others in my family do the same. I take great pride in accomplishing in accomplishing what no one else can accomplish. In collectivism, Uh, you would say things like, I, you consider close others an integral part of the self, right? To understand who I am, you must see me with members of my group. So we will have talked about a sort of independent self-construl, where you view yourself as sort of independent from others versus an interdependent self-construl, where you view yourself as interdependent with the other people in your social group. And collectivist cultures have more of an inter interdependent view of viewing, individuals are viewing themselves. Right? You know, if you take it like. You know, if you take the most extreme version of, of what individualistic cultures think about like the Lone Star State, you know, state of Texas, right? The person out on the man by himself with a bunch of cattle, right, relying on only himself. Right. That's not, you know, that's a sort of Western individualistic idealised version of people, right, which is very different than, uh, collectivist. Right? Now, OK, so these are these values, how we view ourselves, but then I'm gonna talk about cognition, but it turns out, so what does this mean about how we have these different values that might teach people about our cultures, like we've, you know, we very explicitly value one thing or another, but it turns out the values are then. Have these effects on all kinds of sort of cognitive things that you, that you wouldn't necessarily expect. So they affect how you pay attention to the world. The judge is that cultures give you strategies for how you think about the world, what you pay attention to, what you remember, uh, so here's an example of this. Now, there was a study where the study was, this was with adults, it'll start getting you some of these ideas, where the study was. Just telling people, your, your goal is to remember this animal. You're gonna look at a whole bunch of pictures of animals, and then later, we're gonna show you. The animals, and you're going to tell us whether you've seen that animal before or not. All right, now. If you also, however, on also some of the animals, and then the animals when you're studying them are all in different background scenes. Then at test, they're gonna see the the same bunch, you're gonna see some new animals and some old animals. But also in the test, they've swapped which animal goes with which background for some of the trials. In other trials, the animals were in the same background that they were in originally. All right. What, what this study showed was that this, I think this study was originally people from Hong Kong and people from the US. Um Uh, if I remember correctly, though, they're also a version with uh Koreans and a few different Asian cultures, a few different Asian countries they've done this study with. Where, so people from the US. We're just as good as remembering which cow was which or which animal was which, regardless of the background. But when the background swapped. It messed up the Asian people's memory. Right? The idea was that that the encoding of the animal was connected to its environment. While the Americans are like, I don't care about the environment, I'm just focusing on the individual that's in the foreground of of the photo. Right? And so it's the idea is that they're, you know, how, there's no instructions about this, it's just, and the instructions are remember, try to remember the cow. So in this task, the Americans are actually doing what the task was telling them to do, but the idea was that you're, you know, and then there's also studies looking at their eye tracking, where if you're looking at this, that the Americans just look at the cow, they don't look at the background, and the Asian people are like looking all over the scene. Right, so what you're paying attention to sort of varies by these cultural, sort of by these cultural values. So, that was with the adults. Let's get the set. Um, now, to give you a, a, a, a kind of kid sort of version. Uh, not exactly the same experiment, but going in the same direction. During the preschool years, research with the European white Americans. Show that both relational abilities, we talked a whole lot about relational abilities improved. And the ability to selectively attend to individual objects one event at a time, right? So if you had to sort of select the, so, you know, if the, if the, if the white people are just sort of focusing on the cow, they're like selective, they're really good at focusing just on the cow, right? That, that requires some good selective attention, but also they want relational abilities, we talked all about that where sometimes you don't wanna focus on the object and you wanna focus on the common relationships. During preschool years, kids are getting better at both of those things in typical samples. Depending on the task instructions, which one you're supposed to do. This paper looked at Japanese preschool children and American preschool children. Now, here, what's going on? So, the target is the A, right? And then you're asked which of these two is sort of the same or similar or whatever to the A, right? And they all have a pattern. Here there's all a pattern of ABA. That pattern means there's, you know, something different in the middle between two things that are the same. Right. And this one, it's like literally the same. This one, now it's the same, like, it's now different shapes, right? But like, there's still a big one in the middle and two little ones on the side. Here, it's more abstract where it is, you know, uh, it's one, it's a circle in the middle and two diamonds on the side, right? So it's still ABA but it's not, now it's shape and not size that matters. Here it's colour, whoops. Right? And over here, these are these are simple geometric figures, and over here, it's like richer objects, like clocks, right? So here, it's, what is that, like a crayon, like a little cran, big cray, little cray is, is sort of the same as little clock, big clock, little clock. Right? Or key, suitcase key. Or, you know, or a white chair, black chair, white chair, those are all ABA patterns. Now So every time, the right answer is the is the top row and the wrong answer, the BAA is the bottom row. All right, so let's look at the American kids versus the Japanese kids. What you're seeing here is the American kids are about 8, about, you know, 75% correct when it's simple objects, when it's just these like perceptual schematic geometric figures. They're only about 58% correct when it's these richer objects like the clocks and keys and stuff. The Japanese kids are just as good. With the, with the sparse objects in the, in the rich, perceptually rich objects. All right, so why is, is that, right? So, It is that the American kids. Are kind of in, you know, the, the, the the perceptual richness of the rich objects sort of grasps their attention, and they can no longer sort of represent the relationships. Right, while the Japanese kids have no problem kind of ignoring the perceptual richness of the objects and just focus on the common relationships. Right. So So that's a, and that's a task with the, with the, right? So over here, right, the task was about the object, and so the Americans are outperforming the Asians, but here, the task is about the relations. And so then the Japanese uh are outperforming the American kids. Now, here, here's the same sample of 4 year olds, except now the task is find, how quickly can you like find the object. I'm not gonna. um So you know how, how Uh, the, the sort of red object thing, we don't have to worry about that. But how quickly can you find the object in this, like, hit it in this, like, let's say you're searching for the bus or something, right? You're, you're, you're searching for, you're searching for an object. How quickly can you do it in a scene? Overall, the American kids are, so imagine like a where a where's Wally type of situation, right? You're like, there's a cluttered scene, this is a simpler one, there's a cluttered scene, and you have to like find the guy, right? The American kids are faster at that because they're better at ignoring the context and just focusing on the individual object that they're searching for. And the Japanese kids are slower at doing that. But that's only when the scene is sort of meaningful, right? Here's a scene of like a street with like houses and stuff. When the task is just like in a random collection of objects, where there's nothing meaningful in the relationships among the objects, then the Japanese kids aren't any slower. Right, if it's just like find the hammer in the random collection of objects. It's not distracting to have all the other objects around. But in here, because there's like a meaningfulness in the scene, where there's like a there's homes and buildings on the street and cars in like the relationships that they really would exist in the world, right, there's clearly kind of like natural relationships. Then that sort of grabs their attention and slows them down finding the individual objects. Right, so the idea isn't that, you know, one culture is just sort of like cognitively outperforming the other culture and everything, it's that there are sort of these trade-offs. Right, where the sort of, where the, where the, now, of course, when you're talking about the importance of the group and collectivism versus the importance of the individual, no one says, and therefore you should be, you should try to like find individual objects in a cluttered scene faster, right? No, that's not like the value that anyone says, but it's just a sort of consequence of this type of framing of the world, right? But you even see this, for example, when children, like if you look at like, Parents with like 3 year old kids teaching them words, there's way more object labelling for, for a European, for white kids. It's like, that's a duck, that's a bat, that, you know, you're sort of like pointing at things and labelling the objects. There's more sort of like event descriptions in the Asian parents, uh, there's more like, talk of the relationships between things, just in the sort of uh uh communication to. Two Asian children from their mothers. So these sort of like values of viewing the world as sort of interconnected, versus viewing the world as sort of like individualistic, happens in all kinds of ways, even when you're not like, the duck needs its own freedom or something. Maybe Americans would say that. I don't know, you know. It has a right to bear arms, yeah. Wait, you're talking about these.SPEAKER 0For Oh yeah, I, I was kind of ignoring this,SPEAKER 1like, this main versus red distinction. And we're just sort of saying, like, overall, these guys are, because there's not much of a thing, I mean, I guess these guys are boosted slightly even more so by having the isolated colour to find it, so they're even like better at it, right? But what's more important is that the kind of overall main effect, yeah. I Yes. I believe so. So it's, that's the thing that's so weird, it's almost looking at that like, how can you not find it if it's all red, but. Um But, you know, anyway, it's, you know, the little kids, you never know, it's always often surprising what's difficult, yeah. Um, Right, so So that's our our. So, so right, so cultural values provide strategies, what information to attend to and extract from the environment, and this is detectable as early as 4 years old. The interdependent self-control of collectivist cultures leads to a more relational focus, while the independent self-conception of individualism leads to a more object focus in these cognitive tasks. All right. So next we'll hop to another American versus other people comparison of. Uh, Americans compared to indigenous Central Americans. So this research was looking at the Mayan people of Mexico slash Guatemala. And this research is looking at uh what's called intent participation, which is sort of learning via observation. A lot of this work. Has to do with how schooling, when schooling was introduced on, you know, for everyone in the industrial revolution, how this fundamentally changed the relationships between children and adults and how children learn. Right? Children, so before schooling in Western world, right? You sort of, if you had a, if you, if your parent was a farmer, you just sort of like learned how to be a farmer by just like doing the farming with your parent, right? You just learned by like being amongst the adults doing it. When schooling was invented, we were like, you are gonna learn how to become adults by being nowhere near any adults doing what, what you're learning about. Right, you have a sort of, it's a, you know, we think that what they're, what you're learning is gonna be very, it's complicated and you need a long period of being of just dedicated learning rather than kind of like apprenticeship. Right. However, indigenous communities in various places around the world, such as in traditional Mayan, so of course, in Mexico and Guatemala, there of course are people of Mayan descent who are just in the mainstream, you know, industrialised schooling systems, but there are also people who are sort of living in relatively closer to the traditional lives and so they're looking at. The difference, you know, so how in these communities, the children are still learning directly from the adults and participating. And even these very young children like 3 year olds and 4-year-olds, even if they're not like doing the stuff because they physically are incapable of it, they're still what's intense participation, they're still sort of observing and being part of it. And the, and the communities view the child, children's observation as a sort of form of participation in, in what they're doing. Right, and there's, and you even have surveys, I think there's some of the surveys with parents of like, you're, you know, I think, I think it was in Africa, and these rural areas of Africa, like children were like expected, like 3 year old children are expected like to do chores in the home and are just sort of somehow do it. And if you ask like, a parent in like a Western context, like, does your 3-year-old do chores around the house, they'd be like, what the hell are you talking about? Right? There's like no way that would happen, right? Uh, all right, here we go. It's on the slide. That's good. Um. So Inte participation, when even quiet observation is seen as a form of participation, being a good observer and strategy and strategy for learning from the observation or explicitly communicate to children uh in Asia and Central America, this is from the paper, versus assembly line instruction. Do you remember from that video from tutorial when we were on the ADHD day that Sir Ken Robinson was talking about schooling and how like schools are made on this factory model, right? So we're talking about that same thing, right? There was this idea, for industrial revolution, schools were sort of modelled off of factories. Right? Um, where you kind of have this assembly, right? So rather, what happens in factories, you sort of modularize everything, right? You, you know, the, the, the doors of the car are built over here, the seats of the car are built over here, the the engine parts are built over there, right? It's kind of like you have math over here, reading over here, you know, history over here, right? Rather than just, if you're just like, with adults, you just sort of do all of it together. Right? So that, so there was really was this factory metaphor that was very much part of how school was designed, right? Um. Where, like, you know, you can read people write about it and be like, this is like a factory. It's not just like, later historians kind of made this metaphor, like, the people who did it were, like, actively using the metaphor. Now, I'd like to point out, see if I say this on, oh yeah, yeah. Here, here that is, right. So for example, the leading educational administration textbook in 1916, written by Stanford Dean of Education, our schools are in a sense factories in which raw products, children are to be shaped and fashioned into products to meet the various demands of life. It is the business of the school to build its pupils according to the specifications laid down, right? And so in this world, children are the products of the school, which is a factory. Now, I'd like to point out that now universities, we have a business model where students are customers and not products, right? So, your view, you know, so, so rather than us trying to shape you into, and then I guess that sense, the, the, the customer is like the society that you are now. Being sold to, it's not sold to, but you know, in this metaphor, right, people, you know, we want, you're gonna go out there, we want you to, you know, get, you, you know, employers are gonna buy you as products to work for them and their companies or something. But now it's like you're the customer and so. We're like, oh, how do we increase our, you know, let's, let's, let's pay $20 million for new branding, right? Because we got to attract all these customers to come into our university, right? That's very different than viewing US products. Um, there's also, for example, Teacher ratings to have no prediction of learning outcomes, but it doesn't really matter because it's customer satisfaction surveys. It's not really about what you're, you know, learning or whatever. But, you know, that's, that's fine. So, you know, I'm not saying a factory is the right way to think about it. The point is that, but these, these aren't just metaphors. People very much shape educational institutions based, actively based on the metaphor they're using. It's not just like a weird thing that, uh. That like academics might use to analyse. Um, right, so in a factory model, the teacher strives for efficiency in the delivery of knowledge. It implies incentives or punishments to induce children to cooperate in the production process. The students cannot speak to help each other without permission from the teacher. The teacher delivers the curriculum using specialised forms of discourse, especially quizzing, in which the teacher asks questions to which she knows the answer and evaluates the student's response to test the receipt of information. Often the teacher directs children's actions without explaining a rationale. So, you know, you were like, yes, I've been to school. So Now, All right, but what is this as a cultural construct? How is this relevant? Here, right? No, so often children of indigenous backgrounds get into trouble in school because they attempt to collaborate with other students and don't seek permission. Spontaneous adult problem solving in Native American cultures is more collective. We're understanding that people have different and complementary skills, there's much less of a kind of manager who delegates process compared to European Americans. This is, you know, this is all in the American context, but these differences apply in other places as well. Also, Western assessment requires distinguishing people as high versus low performers. Right? We're ranking you by your scores, so that, so that way employers and, you know, graduate school admissions can figure out who to get. So we don't really care, so if you guys are all collaborating when you're learning, we can't really tell how to rank you, even if collaboration would be better for your learning outcomes. Right? Because the job of us is distinguishing between you. Right, so it's not about discovering complementary abilities, right, like, oh, you're good at this and you're better at that, why don't you guys work together as a team, that'd be good, right? That's the way it might work in the professional world, but during school, that's not what is happening. All right, so let's get us some data, some consequences of this. Uh, now, now, now these studies are just looking at how children pay attention to people who are teaching them stuff. Now And what it means to sort of be a part of a group of people learning versus expecting individualised instruction in a kind of assembly line model. This paper looks at cultural patterns and attending the two events at once. So this is, so in this study. The the quote, origami lady comes in and, like, teaches how to, like, do origami, uh, this is at a school in, like, the Yucatan in Mexico. Um, and kids are sort of all sort of watch what she's doing and try to learn how to, uh, How to do the origami, right? From watching. Right, the adults and so comes to primary school to teach origami, and that what, what this thing is they coded for how the children watched and learned from the adult. They coded for what is called simultaneous attention. Where the child is capable of doing their own origami while observing the adult model and also the activities of all other children. So if someone walks into the room, if someone says I need help over here, they're kind of, you're, you're, you're doing your own origami while also engaging in other things, kind of like multitasking or something. Whereasus alternating attention, which is when children had to pause their own activity to watch the model or to interact with other children. And the thing that they showed was The more kind of Western schooling you had, the more alternating attention you had, the less simultaneous attention. So This was looking, so this was looking at um Whether they, how much of like basic schooling versus European schooling and things like that. So basically, if you look across here, right? And the the the Mexican heritage basic schooling. They had more, uh, you know, simultaneous attention and less alternating attention. European heritage high schooling, right? You had more alternating attention and less simultaneous attention. And also overall, there were sort of negatively, the simultaneous attention was negatively correlated to question asking, which is interpreted as a sign of them better be able to learn via observation while in a sort of busy environment. But this was just on their attention, wasn't on their learning outcomes. The next bit is about trying to not just learning outcomes. Again, these aren't like school outcomes, it's just how they're sort of learning from others. This one, the children were being, were being, uh, these are Guatemalan Mayan children. Uh Being compared to white kids in America. And So here they're being demonstrated, like, how to build a couple of, there were some toys that like were a bunch of pieces, and they had to learn how to like, build the toys. Right, and so the adult would show one child, one toy, and then they would go over and show the other child the other toy. And they looked at how well did you learn from the kid when you were not the focus of instruction. Did you like observe the other kid being taught? Right? And you can see here, here's like a bored kid not watching. This is a white kid, bored, not while the other white kid is being taught. And here's like a Guatemalan kid watching the other Guatemalan kid being taught, right? So that's sort of giving away what's gonna happen here, where the Guatemalan kids are sort of. are sort of, are learning when they're not directly being instructed, while the white kids are like, this isn't for me, I'm gonna sit here until I'm getting attention. And Um Right, and so Mayan traditions like Caxlan Mayan are like the Mayan kids who also spent time in western high schools, Western schools, sorry, not high school, these are primary school kids. Um, And so Oh wait, did I actually Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry. So this is again just how much attention they are paying to the other kid, to the other kid being taught, right? And what you see is that the more Western schooling, the less attention is is paid to the other children who are being taught. You can see, you know, sustained detention, 62, 55 versus 30 versus like traditional Mayan, the kind of mixture and, and white American kids. What? Oh yeah, yeah, they had, they had sort of a mixed, they're like Mayan kids, but they've had more experience in Western schooling and these kids are like, just sort of more doing traditional, uh, things, right? So again, I wanna make clear that, like, there's all kinds of good, you learn all kinds of good things in school, I'm clearly like pro school, but, um, You know, it still just changes, like how you pay, you know, what your, what your expectations are of adult interactions and, you know, and how you, what sort of mode of learning you're going, uh, to participate in. And this was actually the sort of outcomes where how good were they at building the toy that the other that they saw the other kid. Uh, being, you know, shown how to do, right? And, and one of the, turns out one of the toys was really easy, and so there wasn't really any effect, like the easy, the easy toy to build, everyone could sort of do it, but when it was like the harder toy to build, the, the, the white kids needed, like, way more help when it was their turn to do it than the Mayan, the kids who did the Mayan, the Mayan traditional kids, who were able to learn from what, who, who sort of paid attention and learned when the other kid was being taught. Right, so the more Western schooling, the more help needed for the more difficult toy. How old are these children? Look at these. These are primary school. These are like middle primary school. What is that like? They're, I, I'm trying to remember. I think they're like kind of like 8 and 9, like that sort of age range in there. Yeah, yeah, so it's different toys. So, so one, right, so you got, like, I always learned how to build the mouse and you learned how to build the frog. And then, and then you would later had to like build the other one. And so when it was the mouse, when like you learned on the frog, which was harder, then it was your turn to build the mouse, like everyone could do it, but if you learned on the mouse, which was easier, then it was your turn to build the frog, then you saw the effects. So, I mean, you can't tell that the frog is harder than the mouse just from me saying those words, but it turns out that was the case. So a summary of this finding. School fundamentally changes the way children and adults interact, where children learn away from adult activities that the learning is supposed to eventually prepare them for. There is a focus on the transmission of knowledge from expert to novice and individual assessment. Children from indigenous communities learn by intense participation and observation of genuine adult activity. The cognitive consequences of this, if we're just ignoring, uh, you know, things like. You know, the types of things you can do when you go to Western schooling, right? We're sort of ignoring that for now. But for the, the children themselves who are still in the act of learning, right, the indigenous children can at once attend to models to learn from and perform their own actions, while the white children do not attend to lessons directed to others and need to alternate attention between the model and their own actions when learning from a model. All right, now. Our last of these comparisons will be white North Americans to native North. So those were Native Central Americans, these are now native North Americans. And this particularly, this was a lot of research done all in the same location. So unlike the white European Americans who are then being compared to Uh, people in Guatemala, this is all people in Wisconsin. Um, who are either on the sort of Native American reservation or in the sort of white, uh, American part of like neighbouring communities. So And I was the Monogamy, um. So there's a few there. So one of the fundamental differences that's behind a lot of this research. Is people's mental models of the environment and where they see themselves in it. And the basic idea is that the white people, when they ask, for example, what do you want children to learn about nature? The Native Americans say that they are part of nature and the white European Americans say to respect nature. So if you start looking at children's books, for example, look, the the human is, I, this is the white, this is for white children. I spy an ecosystem. They are outside of the ecosystem as humans. We are somehow not part of the environment, we're doing something else. We can look at the environment from the outside. Right? All of our, well, all of our relatives, here's a, a Native American, uh, traditional Native American thoughts about nature, right? The idea is that the buffalo. Are part of are their relatives, right? So. You view them, so you view yourself as connected. Do you view yourself as separate from the environment or view yourself as sort of part of the environment? Is this key sort of distinction that we're gonna see in, uh, across these cultures. Now, One is just looking at, this is an analysis of children's books. And Just looking at the illustrations in children's books, and Native American children's books and sort of white American children's books. And they Uh What does that say? Oh yeah, yeah, and playing with a 4 year old diorama. So it's both children's books and the 4 year olds playing with the sort of dioramas of, um, like, of environmental scenes, right? It has to do with, do they look at the perspective of the animal. So, for example, if you have a deer as the character in a book, right? Do you ever see it like from the perspective of the deer, or do you only see the deer in like third person? Right, he's, and. In the Native American books very frequently show the for the first person perspective of non-human characters. While in the, in the children's book of West of white for white kids, they basically never show the first person perspective of anything that's not a human. Also, if you were to sort of act out in these dioramas, often. The Native American kids would sort of, in their sort of play, would show that they would sort of take the perspective of the animal in a way that was much less likely to happen for the white kids to sort of take the perspective of the animal. Um, looking at adults. They might, if they were gesture looking at Native Americans telling a story about an animal, there's this demonstration of them being like being the animal versus being like the animal walked down the street or something like that, where they would sort of embody the animal's uh perspective. Right, so again You know, building this idea that there are sort of connectivity to other species and the environment. Now, if you were to ask 5 to 7 year old children. Why do these, say a frog and lily pad go together? Compared to rural Ameri uh Europe, now a lot of this is going to rural European Americans, Native American children are more likely to mention food chain relations, the utility for people, mimic sounds of animals. There's basically just like, this is basically just kind of like, how much do you kind of know about ecology, ecological relations. And these are children, right? So you, so it's important that these are rural kids. So these are rural kids, the white kids who are like, who are like, you know, their families go hunting, right? They all do outdoors activities. These aren't urban kids, but they still don't end up sort of acquiring all the same ecological knowledge that's not sort of talked about in the same way. Oh yeah, and the, so the term folk biology is a term for like, not like formal biology that we learn in school, but what is like the biological wisdom of a culture that you sort of learn informally, rather than through like an institution like a biology class. So I guess we'll get this part and then we'll have a break. Um, yeah, alright, so. How does this experiment work? So there's a thing called category-based induction in cognitive psychology where. You sort of tell someone that something has some property. And then you see how they generalise it across the category to sort of get an understanding of how they could understand that category. So if you were to tell them, if an emu has omanitum in their bones, which is some like made up property, how likely is it that all birds do? People might go, I don't know, not that likely, emus are weird birds. If a crow has omanitum in their bones, how likely is it that all birds do? And people go, oh yeah, well that's pretty likely causes crows are pretty like typical birds. Right, most people would say that a crow is a better basis of generalisation to other birds than an emu because of how, cause, you know, emus are weird, right? Now, of course, biologic now biologically. That may be the case, that's still how we think about things. And Susan Carey in 1985 showed that 4 year olds, unlike 10-year-olds and adults, they don't use these kinds of similarity relationships. So, uh, 10-year-olds and adults might use like, well, crows are similar to these other birds, so and emus are, are not. However, what they did seem to do is they had these weird biases as humans as the basis of induction. So if you were to say humans have omanitum in their bones, then they would, then 4 year olds would say like, well, everything probably does if humans have it. Um, but if you said this dog has oatum, how about this human, like, oh well, a human wouldn't have something a dog would have, but a dog would have something a human would have. Right, so there's this, and so this idea that Humans are kind of privileged in. The in the sort of folk biology of uh uh so Susan Carey said this is a universal thing of humans. Oh yeah, sorry. OK, yeah, sorry, so Susan Carey said this is a universal developmental pattern, she just tested white kids. It's a universal developmental pattern where you, you start your understanding of the natural world based around humans, and then you kind of build from there your broader understanding. cause you're around humans all the time, they're the kind of example of life to you. And that was sort of and that was what she was claiming, yeah, sorry, what's your what?SPEAKER 0it's the 4 year old.SPEAKER 1Yeah, yeah, they kind of do. 10 year olds are doing the adult thing because you don't really know anything. You're just kind of like, you just use similarity, right? If you don't really know anything, you're kind of like, well, crows are pretty similar to the other birds, so sure, right? So they're sort of using sim they're using kind of similarity to guide their induction, while the 4 year olds are using this kind of like humanness to guide their induction. This, this first study is just Western kids. Yeah, yeah, so this first study, so Carrie was, I don't know if she was at Harvard at the time, but if it was, it would just be kids who lived near Harvard, would have been, would have been the kids, you know, uh, or would have, you know, but she was may have been someplace else in 1985, but yeah. Yeah, so we're about to find out that it turns out. This is not universal, that's what we're gonna find out. Yes, so this claim, so this idea that folk psychology preceded folk biology, where people are the centre of reasoning about the natural world, is what she was sort of saying. This, this, this was a claimed developmental universal, they used urban white middle-class children who may know very little about nature. A bunch of other people sort of did it, sort of decided to replicate this kind of thing. But with urban European-American children, rural European-American children, and rural Native American children. Sort of, sort of isolate the effects of urbanness from uh the cult from like these other cultural aspects. So here the children range from 4 to 10 years old. Half of the kids were started with the, with humans, and so told humans have omanitum bones, and half were told that dogs had omanitum bones, right? And remember the previous finding was that they were happy from humans to sort of generalised to like lots of stuff, but from dogs, they were much more conservative in how they generalised. Then they were showed pictures of these other things and were asked them if they also had a manatom in there in them. Humans, dogs, bears, aardvarks, eagles, toucans, trout, angel fishy, but, you know, sun, rock, computer, a pencil. So the idea is that like, everyone would be like, it's probably not in a computer or something, right? Though we certainly do share materials with. Uh, Other things, right? Atoms and what, what? Right. So children generalise to non-living things the least, then some to plants, but mostly animals, so that's pretty reasonable. All right, well, I'll try to explain, there's a lot of bars here. I'll try to highlight what's going on. So all children by age 6 in this study use similarity among animals and draw stronger generalisations from dogs, right? So this is like how much they're generalising to other animals. Right? And so you see here, overall, the dog bar, the light bar is higher than the black bar. In a lot of these, in, in, sorry, in a lot of these cases where, where kids are kind of older, right? They kind of see that dogs are more like other animals and humans are like other animals. However, for the youngest kids. For both the urban. The rural, uh, um. Native Americans and. What is this? The urban white kids. They both have a bit more generalisation from humans, OK, but the rural. Uh, Native Ame, the, the rural white kids, the rural white kids. At the youngest ages are like the older ones. So there seems, so one of the things they were talking about is it turns out these kids are most likely to have dogs as pets. And so, so they're sort of the quickest to sort of seeing the similarity between dogs and other. Animals. But the critical thing here is this, is the, is the symmetry is the between. If a human has this, does a dog versus if a dog has this does a human. All right. So in the white kids, there are these big asymmetries. Between How much more likely they are to say a dog has something if a human has it, compared to how likely they are to say that a human has it given a dog has it. So big asymmetries for the urban and rural white kids, well, there's basically no asymmetry in the monogamy. So the monogamy have like the equivalent, if a dog has it, then a human has it. Is the same percentage, they're just as likely to say that as if a human has it, then a dog has it. Right, so, So in that sense, there's no kind of privileging of, in this particular pattern of, in this type of experiment, there's no privileging of um Uh, uh Yeah, there's there's no, there's no privileging of the human as a source of generalisation. For the monogamy. All right. Um, now, if you're interested, Megan Bang, who's a, uh, Native American woman, has been leading. So one of the things that she's very interested in doing is getting Uh, white kids to feel connected to nature, uh, or just all children, so indigenous, so, sort of, and she's leading a charge of sort of integrating native, uh, indigenous American knowledge into science curriculum for all people. Uh, I have a chance to sort of watch this video, we can sort of watch this video where this is in Chicago and there's going down to the Chicago River, there's, you know, rivers, even though it's a big city, there are parks, right? You can, you can sort of anywhere you can go. To these natural environments, so you're trying to do a lot of like outdoor science education, sort of build, sort of build a sense of their connection to nature with the idea being that we are as humans destroying the environment and maybe it's because we don't view ourselves as part of it. This is part of what She's doing, right. So, I'll summarise this part, a fundamental difference in the mental model of human-nature relations are, are you a part of nature or are you separate from nature? Experience with nature and say psychological distance seems to be to nature is critical with developing folk biology. Native Americans see more complex ecological relations with nature and show no inductive asymmetry between humans and animals. And they're educ there are now sort of educational approaches led by Native American researchers to attempts to engender a sort of part of nature mental model in all people. When you are part of nature and attribute agency personhood to non-humans and non-animals, then a different ethics of extraction from nature is created. Right? You, you wouldn't just tear everything out of the ground for your own use, if you viewed it as part of you is the logic. So if you're interested in some of these things, um, here's some discussion of how Native American sustainable forestry practises by the Mononomy are sort of being integrated into trying to be integrated into sort of foresting because, so for and there's many similar examples in Australia of indigenous Australians are sort of trying to use indigenous knowledge to do better environmental management. Um, because, for example, in this, in this forest in America, uh, people, you know, Western, Western use of timber tends to destroy the forest rather than sustaining it, while in the Native American community, the forests are healthier, even when the Native Americans are still constantly using the timber for their own uses. So they seem to have a way, it seems to be possible to do that. Uh, Right. And so some of these people are saying in the global movement to fight climate change, we need indigenous ecological knowledge and practises at the forefront. All right, so a summary of all this, then we'll have our break. Uh, all right, so cultures provide value systems, and these are realised in moment to moment interaction with each other and the environment. Cultures and values provide strategies for attention, learning, memory, reasoning, generalisation, concepts. Collectivism promotes relational thinking while individualism promotes an object focus. Western schools emphasise individual learning while Mesoamerican indigenous cultures promote collaboration and learning via intent participation. Native American cultures emphasise being part of nature while European Americans see themselves as separate from nature. All right, so why don't we have a break, and then this last part's kind of a mini lecture, so we're not, it's not a good one, too much. But yeah, let's have 5 minutes and we'll be back for the final segment. Yeah, that's right.SPEAKER 0Experience of nature like that's like a is that. Yeah, like, well, seeing yourself as separate people, right? It's like nature is like psychologically more distance, yeah, I'm standing like outside of it while I'm like most. when you Yeah, so that, yeah, so, and, and so that was a combination of that and all the lights. Perspective teams, right, like it's like they're, you know, when they're kind of enacting. Right, yeah, so that was one that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, right, but they kind of view that sym that asymmetry, right, is like a seen as a privilege in humans as a sign that, yeah, yeah, humans are kind of privileged over others, is that something that's being held by, yeah, yeah, everyone has pro biology. It's just like different cultures, so we were all set, you know, we're both biology. You know, we still have knowledge about animals, right? You know, it's just a different set of, yeah, yeah, yeah, folk is applying some of these, these ideas to, to try to like do they have to the same vibe for us, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's another version. Yeah, yeah, exactly, is that right. Hello. they In Um, so in the if you work, so the indigenous stuff, so people would sort of say indigenous cultures are more collectivist overall people collectivist visualism more particularly East Asia, where even though it's not true that you're also view if you were, if you do these global surveys they would apply. Every those are apply everywhere outside of like British and Japan, right? And so in that sense it does apply, but I haven't seen that as a particular focus within the building because it tends to be highly industrialised, you know what I mean because you have like To Japan, Japan or Hong Kong to America, you know, they, they're just thinking about it might be worse. Uh, but it's not necessary, it has been coping. Sorry, it's not an answer. There might be, there might be. I don't. General Yeah No, no, no, no, sir, yes I was wondering. background, you know, but then, but they look at like they should be a part of this collective, or is that still, yeah, it certainly, it certainly would make sense that that would be part of that they would have a different attractive view given that, but I'm not sure if that's been done, but I don't feel like we make sense of that at all. And also these are multiple. There's like there's some of these cultural variation surveys and you're kind of like 4 or 5 different dimensions, kind of like personality, you know, kind of like openness is separate from. Agreeableness or whatever where like individual collectivism is like one dimension of cultural variation but then there's also like other dimensions of cultural variations that I'm now suddenly forgetting what they are but there is but they're like a bunch of different dimensions I've seen that where there's way less psychology work and all the people some of the surveys I know this guy who was actually doing like work. I 50 countries and they're trying to figure out like how do we get people from like IBM to like work with each other across like different like how do we get like the Germans and IBM Office to work with like the Mexican IBM office like how we do so this guy just had this whole big all this work based on like all these IBMs and stuff and he's looking it up with these like 5 dimensions like cultural variation kind of based on this work now that only didn't have anything to do with nature in that. Like it's all like IBM employees. Right, so that was more like, you know, so it's sort of deeper research stream, but I, yeah, I'm sort of the good, so yeah, yeah. There's like 2 weeks, you know, yeah. Like, I'm, I'm gonna just be something. Oh yeah, I, yeah, I, um, but it's different. Yeah. Is Yeah, I mean, you have the other one up there, so. Yeah, I, it's very tricky. It's very tricky. I realise that, um, yeah, I mean, officially I'm not supposed to. You know, so for example, so in theory the worst case scenario is that you choose whether or not you want the one day because they're all up there. You could say grade this one, this one was one day late, but it's fixed versus this. it doesn't have those on time and all this kind of mess up, but I can see but I think that you're supposed to let this centralised system handle the extension. Yeah. OK, yeah, right, but I guess it's right, because I guess because you could have to fill the extension 4 so. It is kind of silly that like it's kind of auto. I can't because I just get the emails of like I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I just, I, I, yeah, it's fine. Oh yeah, that's fine. I'm just really excited about. Do you, do you think it would be that off the market? I mean, maybe looks like. Look, I, I'll tell the, I can tell you no, the, uh, the shooter of your, of your travel. Oh yeah, yeah, you can, I can, I can. Oh, you're a Carline, so I'll tell her. I, I told you about it as well and she was, she was like talking to this, yeah, yeah, yeah, she knows she knows my name, she knows how I'm. OK. OK, yeah, yeah, yeah, no problem.SPEAKER 1Was that 5 minutes?SPEAKER 0Oh. Oh my God. That's great. right. Uh. Uh OK I. Oh All right, I think that was 5 minutes, right?SPEAKER 1OK, so I did, we're not gonna watch these all now, partially because Doesn't seem to be working, but I was gonna say that before it was clear that the links weren't working, but there are um. So I, there is, so there's a series of short videos. I put the link in the in the kind of, in the canvas where it's like, You know, in the lecture section where it says, uh, You know, here's the slides, here are the learning outcomes, here's like extra material. I put the link to this module developed at the University of Sydney's National centre for Cultural Confidence, all about Aboriginal Australians' kinship systems and. Uh, and they're just like 7, like 3-minute videos, sort of explaining how this works. Um, this isn't gonna be examined, but just, uh, it's very much worth watching, especially if you have no education on, on the indigenous Australian, uh, culture. Um, it was designed for people to get a basic introduction to like how family situations work, which I think is quite relevant for us as developmentalists to understand how, how culture is passed on between generations and systems of kinship. And then also there's some videos of people talking about what, how things, when this, this kind of cultural systems are not understood or respected, the sort of harm it can cause. I think I have a slide for like each one of these videos, but the links doesn't seem to be working. So these are the names of the videos, you can just go. On there and they're all just like a few minutes long. Maybe it's more than 3 minutes, I can't quite remember. I watched them last year. All right, but. So I recommend watching those videos. Now. This is a model of um developed by. Uh, Aboriginal psychologists. On the kind of, uh, what's it called, the social-emotional well-being. Model. And the idea is that the sort of concept of the self, cannot be in Indigenous Australia, Australia. Distinguish that people's selves cannot be isolated from. The community, from their history, from the environment. The connection to culture, the connection to family and kinship. Connection to ancestors, this is all sort of part. Of Uh, the self, and from a psychological research point of view. Right, cause a lot of what we do in psychology, right? Think about like, there are 3 executive functions, working memory, response, inhibition, and, you know, this, right? And so the often the goal in psychological science is to partial out the kind of mind into as many subcomponents as possible. Right? And One of my understanding is the idea is that they want to take to to sort of promote well-being, they want to take the opposite perspective instead of trying to partial out all these subcomponents, sort of have an understanding of us as connected to each other, our histories and our environments. And you need to understand and to and to look at people's well-being, right? If you just focus on, if you do something like, oh, a lack of executive function is predictive of, you know, anxiety or something like that, right? You're sort of looking at these correlations of these different psychological constructs all within a mind, right? That's not going to explain. Why anyone might have these issues, which are more, why, why someone might have, you know, how being disconnected, that's not gonna tell you how being disconnected from your land and your community is harmful. Right, though, that type of psychological model isn't really gonna help explain uh the potential causes of psychopathologies or for lack of a, for using the Western kind of language in these uh communities, right? And so you need to have this whole big picture. Right, you have to take in the whole context is the idea. Now. Let's So we're starting to look at some of these things now. There's a framework, we, there's links to all these resources. How are there sort of frameworks around the importance of self-concepts and self-determination in indigenous development and education. Right, so from these principles, from this sort of model of uh mental health and well-being principles and practise. Aboriginal Torres Strait Islander health is viewed in a holistic context that encompasses mental health and physical, cultural and spiritual health. Land is central to well-being. Crucially it must be understood that while the harmony of these interrelations is disrupted, Aboriginal Torres Strait Islander ill health will persist. Self-determination is central to the provision of Aboriginal Torres Strait Islander health services. Um, So Now I wanna focus particularly around some cognitive developmental types of things uh related to this. Now, If you look at Things like the NAPLAN or whatever in whatever scoring system or whatever kind of standardised tests you have. On average, indigenous students, indigenous Australians score worse than non-Indigenous Australians. Right? And so when people talk about this, they might go, there's a, there's an achievement gap. We have to how can we close the gap? Right, what can we do? Um, and so this sort of these academic, these researchers are talking about how when discussing Indigenous Australians, it's all about, there's a deficit, right? So this idea that the indigenous kids are doing worse than the non-Indigenous kids, there's this deficit that we have to kind of make up, we have to overcome. In other areas of education in the world, quote, excellence is frequently used to frame policy. But a simple Google search of excellence in indigenous education comes up with very few meaningful results. Why aren't we starting from the same point? Why, why are we just focusing on, they're focusing on closing, on reducing a deficit. But the focus for non-Indigenous Australians is like achieving excellence. So they sort of talk about how, how you're sort of framing it as you rather you can be strained, you can be framing things in terms of an asset approach. Uh, you see this sort of in lots of areas of cross-cultural research where there's a typical framing of white people see other peoples having sort of deficits in comparison to them rather than focusing on a different sets of strengths and assets that a different cultural community has. Now In this work, They were looking at this work. Uh, looked at indigenous Australians and non-indigenous Australians and looked at the relationships between their self-concepts, or how much they sort of, you know, things like self-esteem, things like, you know, how they viewed themselves and their academic achievement. So there are two sort of views that that that this paper we're sort of talking about where there's a self-enhancement view, and this idea is over across development, if you have a high self-concept, if you view yourself as like a high, like you're, let's say you think I'm really good at school, something like that, right? That self-concept comes first and then leads you to doing well because you're motivated, you like you have high self-efficacy, you think you can do it, and so you keep on trying past struggles and you persist and do better. So that's a self-enhancement view. Another view is achievement leads to high self-concept. You start out without really any view of yourself, but then after you start doing well, you go, oh, I turns out I'm good at this. Right? Like, and so I should have a high self-concept cause I just got a good grade on this test. This view is that achievement leads to health, high, this is the skill acquisition view. Now, what this paper did was sort of show that that these relationships are reciprocal. A stronger self-concept leads to higher achievement, which then leads to higher self-concept. And this is the same for indigenous and non-indigenous Australians. The is that the basic processes, so the idea is that if we're framing. If we're telling a whole bunch of kids. There's a deficit to close while telling sort of other kids. Reach for excellence or something like that, that framing will have effects on self-concept. Right, which then affects achievement and how that recip backs in the self-concept. But the point is that within each population, the, the mechanisms are the same. The basic relationships between your self-concept and your achievement in both populations, that it's reciprocal. There's no reason to think that this would be different. And this was a longitudinal, looking at multiple, uh, you know, high schools of multiple years. So there are questions like, I learned math or English quickly, like so these are the types of questions around their self-concept, to be like self-concept of their achievement. Right, so the idea is that setting kids up with You know, positive self-concepts builds over time. So in, in to talk about self-determination. So there's a there's some schools where, so Gowra School is an indigenous, it's like an indigenous-run school within a school, I believe in New South and uh uh. And then I remember correctly in New South Wales. Now this is just one school. But there, this was rather than because this wasn't totally indigenous run, the idea is that the indigenous people got to determine how the school worked and like how it was run, what the education was. This was sort of given, it was sort of, you know, they had self-determination, agency to design the school. And in this school, there was no gap in achievement scores. So, this is the the the the graph kind of goes all over the place because it's one school, it's not that big of a sample, but that tour course line is the Gowara school. The red line is the average state NAPLA schools. This is NAPLAN scores, and the, uh, oh wait, yeah, yeah, the, that the black line are schools with similar demographics to the Garra School, but aren't, don't have this kind of self-run aspect. So you can see there's this big achievement gap between the state average and the other schools with similar demographics, but no achievement gap for NAPA school, this was. Uh, Literacy and numeracy. Right, now, it jumps around again because it's a small sample year to year, but overall, there's no evidence of a gap. Right, for the school that. Has the, um, you know, that is empowered. There's a growing number of indigenous schools within school within schools integrating cultural identity and practises with standard Australian curriculum. Oh yeah, sorry, right, so they're sort of, they're not like completely making up different curriculum, they're, but they're sort of in charge of like how it's run and integrating their identity and practises with it. So I didn't want, I made it sound like they're clearly making up different materials. Not like they're making up completely different materials, but they have control over like how it's being delivered and how they are, um, you know, building in their own culture and practise into it. Right, they're still like learning to read and things like that, right? Um. So Uh, and this graph is looking at, this was looking at growth across from year 3 to year 5 on these tests. On these standardised tests. This was from 2021. But as you sort of see, again, the sort of turquoise. Type teal blue-green type colour is the Gawara school. Right? And again, there's sort of no deficit. If anything, there appears to be more growth. Here, from year 3 to 5. Uh, than the state average and the other schools with similar demographics. Um This is just a report that this school produced that I, that I was, that um an indigenous academic sent me. This is like a, you know, they generate a report on like how well is this going, right? They have a report, you know, the sort of, if you want to convince the government to, to have more of these schools, you do have to sort of show, hey, look, if you're interested in closing the gap, if that, if that's what you want to do is to close the gap, you need to like not frame it like that in a way, right? If you're, if you're actually empowering a community to do things in their own way, then this gap doesn't exist. Uh, so How about when there's no self-determination in health services? Now this is a um a case where Uh, and health services. Now, this is not looking, this is all, I'm gonna tell you it's all based on this paper here by a PhD student in our school. Maybe, maybe she's graduated by now, but I don't know, was a recently PhD student. Um, was talking about the misapplication of attachment theory, uh, which we actually don't really talk about in this, um, unit very much, but is used a lot by, uh, In child protective services, right? So years after the 2008 apology of the Stolen Generation, Aboriginal children are still fam separated from their family at much higher rates than any other social group. And psychological theory has some blame here. Child Services evaluates the quality of parental relationships in part related to attachment theory. Attachment theory was developed in individualist cultures to predict long-term psychological well-being based on the quality of relationships between child with their primary caregiver. However, this is misapplied in Aboriginal contexts in multiple ways. For example, there's communal caregiving rather than the responsibility of a single parent. So if you're just evaluating how much is that individual parent caring for that child, it's gonna look like less. If you're only evaluating the role of the individual parent. In addition, Aboriginal people view their infant as having more agency and autonomy in their behaviour than non-Aboriginal cultures, and this is to be respected and supported. So some behaviours are coded by Child Services as negligent based on attachment theory, but are seen as autonomy respected in Aboriginal culture. For example, a child falls down, do the parents help them up? There this, um, so Aboriginal parents may leave the child to help themselves up after assessing that the fall and very subtly assessing that the fall did not cause real injury. And going to help them will be seen as sort of disrespecting the child's ability to help themselves. But it is viewed as negligent as sort of letting your child be injured according to this assessment on child services. So, right, yeah, so, so, so this is a paper by Um, folks, In this school on attachment and the misapprehension of Aboriginal children and child welfare interventions. I Interested And that Um, Yeah, there's also a bunch of interesting papers we don't have time to go into, uh, some more reading if you're interested. So I think the final thing that we'll talk about is looking at More cognitive things, I'm, you know, there's not, so one of the things I want to mention, you might notice. There's not that much. So if you look at the work I was talking about Native Americans, right? A lot, a lot of work with Native Americans are like, OK, here's a lab experiment that was first done with. Um, white kids. Now it's like do that with Native American kids and see how different it is, right? To do that. The community has to be in, is collaborates and endorses that study, right? You know, the, the, so Doug Mine and Megan Bang, Northwestern University, Megan Bang is a Native American woman. They sort of have relationships with anonymy, with the minority people, and they were sort of happy to be involved and collaborate in the research. As far as I am aware. There is not the, I have not seen any sort of lab have us do a an equivalent kind of thing with indigenous Australians where it's like, we're just gonna take this like white person lab study and just do it with you guys. The, the attitude about that is sort of, is, so one of the reasons why I'm not, I'm not like get presenting that kind of data is because that kind of data as far aware it doesn't exist in some of these ways, right? So. Um, but there's other kinds of way, there's other sort of ways that people have done kind of cognitive research, uh, focused on indigenous Australian culture. Um, and so I'm talking about one of them, which is looking at, uh, memory. Uh, how Australian original techniques for memorising. So So this is an example of a cultural strike. Um, now, one of, there's a whole bunch of work that some people have done on like, cause when we have lots of, you know, Writing in society, we kind of forgotten like how it was that people were ever able to remember stuff before, um, uh, uh, you know, before there was writing, right? But, you know, people used to go around, you know, the Odyssey, right? Like Homer, people would go around ancient, like Rome and Greece and just say the entire Odyssey. Somehow, right? So there are ways that people, we kind of, you know, and Socrates was like, once, now that everyone's writing, no one's gonna remember anything anymore. It's like, all these kids with their damn phones, you know, but it was, you know, so, that people used to just like, I remember the entire. You know, thing, right? So, some people were like, how did anyone ever do this type of stuff? And there is this method that this woman developed that was sort of based on things like Stonehenge, where she thought Stonehenge was like a way to remem was like a memory tool, she called it sort of creating a memory palace. And so a memory palace is this like, like standard thing that's happened. That people have used, it was sort of adopted by kind of ways that we think people used to memorise stuff. Uh, and now if people have like a memory competition, there's weird things that people have memory competitions, like, for example, like how many digits of pi can you like remember, right? Or there'd be things like, there's a, here's a word list of like 2 200 words, like, how many can you remember, like right now, right? So these are really fun competitions. So, in the way the people who are good at this, all say they make memory palaces. So what's a memory palace? They're instructed to visualise a familiar, so in this study, they kind of, now this, these were medical students, and this was sort of looking at it, sort of improving memory and medical education, though for this study, this was just um. Uh, uh A sort of wordless. This, this doesn't actually use their medical material, but it's sort of, sort of the principle. And so the idea is that participants were instructed to visualise a familiar room and setting, a childhood bedroom or their current residence, and try to recall the location and physical appearance of items in this imagined space. A schematic drawing on a whiteboard was used to illustrate the setup. Participants were instructed to associate items to remember specific objects and locations in the imagined space with as much detail as possible. A red lamp with an adjustable shade and a power switch in the centre of the lamp base sitting on a desk to the left-hand side, the entrance of the room, etc. So when people, when people have these memory. Uh, when people have these, like, memory competitions, they have, like, a memory palace. So, like, I have designed a palace in my mind, and I'm trying to remember stuff. I'm like, yes, like, the East Wing with, like, this is where, like, this word goes, and, like, this, and so, like, they kind of walk through their, like, palace in their mind where all the, like, digits of pi is, like, in the next room, something like this, right? So this is what these people, and the, and the woman who was sort of, and this academic who is Australian, was doing this work on, like, uh, Uh, on the sort of ancient cultures, like in Stonehenge, she was like, to prove this works, I'm gonna become a memory, and she's, like, won a bunch of memory competitions based on, like, doing this, like sort of part of her research. All right, so that's, but another condition, however, one of the things that differs in the Australian Aboriginal method, is they actually are going to include a narrative structure along with, The location, right? So a memory palace has a spatial structure, there's not necessarily any narrative in it. Right, I mean you could in theory, talk about the story of walking around the house or whatever, but it's not sort of intrinsic to it. So group two participants were given an overview of the Australian Aboriginal memorization technique by an experienced Australian Aboriginal educator, including a short description of how elders instruct young people in the elements of place-based narrative, image and metaphor. To construct a narrative around the butterfly word list, this is. So, right, so basically they were like, here's the word list for the memory experiment, and they basically had to like walk around this thing. And they were basically told to create a story of like sort of what I'll just read it. So conduct the narrative in the butterfly world, the instructor walked students around a rock garden located it on campus, which contained multiple rocks, plants, and concrete slabs arranged in the shape of a large stylized footprint. Each list item was incorporated into a narrative related to elements in the rock garden. The narrative was practised as students physically walked through the garden with the instructor and participants were encouraged to visualise walking through the garden during recall. As the participants mentally walked the the path and the narrative, they're encouraged to approach each feature in the garden and identify the place and its associated butterfly name. All right, so these are all names, different kinds of butterflies, is the, is the, is the things to remember. All right. So Now we can see here, as I probably won't be showing you this, this isn't how the results came out, the, uh, the untrained, right, so the memory palace people outperformed the untrained people, but the people who were trained in the Aboriginal method sort of remembered the most, uh, of the butterfly names. Right, and this is just a silly, you know, little experiment where you have to memorise, you know, 15 butterfly names, uh. But Um, you know, the idea here is that this, this kind of, uh, narrative method of sort of not just a narrative, but not just actually entirely in your mind, you first connect it to to land that you're experiencing and then internalise it in your mind, and that leads to the, you know, highest quality memory. And the idea that this is connected to, well, how can You know, we have these sort of narratives and ecological knowledge passed down over 60,000 years. Well, it turns out these methods are actually extremely good for remembering things exactly. All right, this is just a little demonstration. Right, so, The summary of our of this bit. So rather than dividing experimental psychological research into isolated psychological cognitive processes, the holistic interdependent self should be understood and supported. Rather than say a deficit model, an asset or strength-based approach focusing on agency and self-determination is needed and is successful. Self-concept and educational achievement is reciprocal in both indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians, and so we should be focusing on promoting high self-concept for all kids. And also the idea here is that the self, so to connect these two strands, I didn't quite do it. The, the high self-concept for Indigenous Australians is connected to the ability for the community to have self-determination over the educational uh institution, right? The sort of the idea is that the, the, the self-determination of the school system and, and, and integrating the identity, right? They're integrating indigenous identity into the school, which promotes a self-concept, which is connected to their culture. Right? So that's how you can, you know, if you have that, then you get the same positive reciprocal relationships that happen for kids of any culture. Right? And there's with indigenous self-determination schools, there's no evidence, like such as the Gawara school, there's no evidence of an achievement gap. Where there's no self-determination, the mishap, so for example, in the design of, so one of the works that they, that they're doing, that one of some of the work that um uh the PhD student here is doing who wrote that paper about attachment theory, one of the things that they're working on is, all right, it's not that there shouldn't be any type of child services evaluating the safety of children, it's just that we have to make a version of this that's actually based on the culture that uh that the, that the people are being raised in. Right? There certainly can be harms to children in any culture, right? But they're gonna sort of miss the point is that the tools being designed in one culture don't fit the culture that they're being, that they're being used. But a self-determination of the culture would be, we're gonna design the to these assessment tools ourselves. Right. So the misapplication of these developmental psychological theory developed in Western context can cause severe harm to Aboriginal children and families. So, and then that final point was that all people's cognition in terms of memory can benefit from an understanding of Aboriginal knowledge transmission practises. So a strength-based approach can highlight a two-way cultural influence where rather than just thinking, oh, if we want to improve the schooling of Aboriginal kids, we should make them do white people stuff, right? We actually can do the other way. Where, where if we, if you're in medical school and you have to memorise way too much stuff, you know, um. Then an Aboriginal narrative technique may sort of help uh you memorise all the stuff for the exam that you can then forget immediately afterwards. Just joking about that last part. You should remember everything you study forever. Right. So, right, all right. So that's the end of this, of this, this lecture stream, um. Now you're all ready for the exam, I imagine. So in 2, it's in a couple of weeks. If you wanna have a an overall summary of this thing is how do you argue, remember. We've heard a bunch of different theories. How do you argue for these different theories? What evidence do you use? How do you argue for interventions to choose? What evidence do you use for that? If you can do that, you'll be all right, um. I'll put this will be on canvas shortly. There will be 2 exam Q&A's. Uh, I don't know if people have seen this yet, but So on Monday, the test is Saturday the 22nd, right? You guys checked? Right. So on Monday the 17th, I on Zoom for me at 12:30 and Carolinea at 2 p.m. Uh, if you can't make it, that will be recorded and posted. This would be to uh if you can't make it but you have a particular question you want asked, you can add it to the discussion board. I think this is all discussed in this week's tutorial, but I just wanna reinforce it more. All right. Officially to 1:30, but it'll probably run a little long, so I, it, from 12:30 to 1:30, but we'll probably run a little long, so that's why I figured to have a half an hour, half an hour gap before Caroline's in case. Um, and one's over. 2 to 3, yeah. You know, you might be able to convince us to keep on going if, if, if you have more questions, but yeah. But then I'll be on leave after the 17th for a few days, so definitely don't wait till after the 17th to ask me questions. You may not get answers. But you can ask as many questions as you would like over the next two weeks. All right, thank you. That's the end of the class. Oh, aha. Never mind. Thank you. Thanks. Quiz, That, yep, sorry about that. Uh, what cognitive function would we say is most central to meeting the various effects of culture? I think back to the 1st, mainly the 1st lecture, the 1st half. May not be the best wording, so think about how I was like, values of the culture do something. And then Something else happened. Well, part of this, you can think about a general cognitive model where Right, so, so Yes, yes. So, right, so I think that people are starting to get it where you would say, if you remember the eye tracking data around the cows and the environments, right? Is the idea that the reason why the, why people are remembering different stuff that are, are they're learning, you're because you're gonna learn and remember what you pay attention to. Right, generally is the idea. And so what seems to be going on in a lot of these cognitive tasks is that our cultural values are kind of being, are giving us strategies of how to pay attention to the world, which then leads to what we learn and what we remember. So I would say attention B is the answer. So put B into campus. Oh whoop. Yeah, right, sorry, that's supposed to, oh, thank you. See, here, here, like, here's the link to the, to the.SPEAKER 0There. OK. No, yeah, yeah, I saw, yeah, because we had thatSPEAKER 1research one. You know, the one where we went over like the the research. Yeah, so we, so we don't have this like exam revision one at the end. But you can still do, you can still do it if you want.SPEAKER 0Yeah, cause it's just, it's, it's using, if you lookSPEAKER 1at, if you look at what's happening on the slide, you can, like, get on the Pier it's just people in peer wise, yeah, yeah, yeah.SPEAKER 0Yeah, yeah, yeah, cool, see you later. Uh Yeah, yeah, yeah, so, yeah, so we, right, goodSPEAKER 1point. We're not, the legal one is not examined. The last one, it is, yeah, yeah, yeah, even though, yeah, even though that kind of stand, it's not typical of how it works, but yeah, with that one, I mean, Yeah, because there might be, you know, you can draw some of those studies you can draw on for SAQs and stuff like that, yeah.SPEAKER 0Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah.SPEAKER 1No, so, so litter, it's really just. It's just to make sure you actually are writing your own essay rather than using chat GPT to do it all. If you write your own essay, I, I will be very surprised if you don't do very well on the, on the, cause I assume, because if given you write yourself, you'll probably still basically remember what you wrote, right? But you won't be given like, but. Yeah, that's true, but look, we're not. Yeah, but unfortunately, we can't give, so the reason why we can't give the essay back is because once it's released, then the people with like academic plans that have extensions like can't do it. Like you, they have to then do like an alternative assessment. But you're right that Well, the way that one's gonna be scored, it's gonna be scored pretty generously, is my assumption. It's just, I'm gonna have to take a look at it, it's the first time we're doing it this way, but the goal is really just to make sure that you like, actually wrote your own essay. Yeah, if even if you.SPEAKER 0I think we What we're writing. That we don't write it again in the. No, that, that, that is logical, but I see yourSPEAKER 1point. But, but we're, but we're gonna, yeah, yeah, so it's more, it's more about the, it's more about the similarity of what you wrote and not, yeah, yeah, it's more about. We're gonna have to figure out the ways to do all this. I study for it. I don't study for that question. Writing the if you writing the essay for that question is the only thing you gotta do for studying for it. No, no, no, yeah, I mean, I assume if you write your essay, you'll be able to kind of reproduce it later, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So you don't need to memorise the. No, I don't, I don't, I can't tell you what the exact question is going to be. I'm just trying to like, no, no, no, there's only one question on the essay. The of their 4 SAQs, sorry, there's 7 SAQs total. 1 is on the essay. Oh, is that not clear from how it's written? No, section, so section B. Oh, OK, I'll, I'm sorry. I now I see how that's confusing, right? So section B is Caroline's lectures. Section C is my lectures, plus one question on the essay. OK, sorry, I'll change that. That's worth, right, if everyone interpreted that way.SPEAKER 0Oh, I get it.SPEAKER 1Yes, I see. OK, I will change that. Yeah, thank you for, thank you for making it clear that that's how you interpreted that. I will, I will correct how that's worded. Yeah, yeah, I was like, why is everyone so concerned? It's just, yeah, yeah, right, yeah. Yeah, yeah, apologies. Yes, that one.SPEAKER 0Yes, my, uh, yes, we will mark it if, ifSPEAKER 1the way we determined to have marked it fails 90% of the class, we will change how we're marking it. You know what I mean, like, we're, we're, it's, the assumption is it will lead to very few failures because our assumption is that the vast majority of you are genuinely writing your own essay. That's its sort of purpose. It's just there to really incentivize everyone doing that. Yeah, sorry, I, I see why it looks that way. Yes, thank you. I have a question.SPEAKER 0honour thesis potentially into into psychology, um, I'm moving up to, Do it And there's a like up there that's a really big problem with kind of indigenous incarceration of young people.SPEAKER 1I just wondered like if you've had any experience supervisingSPEAKER 0similar honours projects, what the kind of scope would be like what you're able to do in life.SPEAKER 1It's so not to give you so I haven't typically with honours projects you try to not be ambitious that's because you, it's just like it's only only like 9 months and your goal is to get a good mark and to get into the master's programme would that be something right for a master's thesis. Yeah.